C U L I NA RY C O N N E C T I O N

RECIPE BOOK
2018
RECIPES INSPIRED BY PENNSYLVANIA GROWN INGREDIENTS
AND CREATED BY RENOWNED CHEFS.

PA P R E F E R R E D.C O M

C U L I NA RY C O N N E C T I O N

RECIPE BOOK
2018
RECIPES INSPIRED BY PENNSYLVANIA GROWN INGREDIENTS
AND CREATED BY RENOWNED CHEFS.

Like us on Facebook at
www.facebook.com/papreferred
Copyright © 2018 Pennsylvania Department of Agriculture. All Rights Reserved.
No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic,
mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, without the
prior written permission of the Pennsylvania Department of Agriculture.
Requests for permission to reproduce any portion of this publication must be made to:
Pennsylvania Department of Agriculture, PA Preferred program
at 717-772-1429 ra-markets@pa.gov.

PA P R E F E R R E D.C O M

RECIPE BOOK 2018
CONTENTS
SATURDAY, JANUARY 6, 2018 · MUSHROOM DAY
Spinach Cannelloni filled with Mushrooms and Barley..............2
PA Mushroom and Barley Soup......................................................3
Country Fresh Gourmet Blend Mushrooms
and Spinach Sauté.............................................................................4
Tredici Mushroom Toast..................................................................6
Hand-Cut Egg Noodles with PA Mushrooms, Leeks,
and Dandelion Greens......................................................................7
2017 Uncle Mayham’s Mushroom Burger.....................................9

SUNDAY, JANUARY 7, 2018 · VEGETABLE DAY
Vegan Buddha Falafel Tacos with Root Vegetables ..................14
Aquaponic Greens and Micro Greens, Spaghetti Squash and
Fresh Herb Fritters, Ginger Infused Golden Beets, Toasted
Squash Seeds, and a Cranberry Citrus Vinaigrette....................16
Stuffed White Mushrooms.............................................................18
PA Mushroom Soup with Mashed Red Potatoes .......................20
Broiled Cauliflower Steaks with Parsley and Lemon.................21
Veggie Pasta with Contemporary Tomato Cream Sauce..........23

MONDAY, JANUARY 8, 2018 · WEIS DAY
PA Pork and Sauerkraut.................................................................26
Sweet Potato and Black Bean Chili..............................................28
Almond Crusted PA Rainbow Trout with a Butternut Squash
Puree and Sautéed Kale and Apples ............................................29
Cannelloni featuring DelGrosso Garlic and Cheese Sauce.......31

Juniper-Crusted PA Venison Loin with Mushroom Duxelle,
Brussels Sprouts, Huckleberry Sauce and a Brown Butter
Potato Foam ....................................................................................32
Chicken Scallopini with Grilled Portabella “Wellington”........34
Lamb Paprika...................................................................................36

TUESDAY, JANUARY 9, 2018 · POTATO DAY
Potato Gnocchi with a Crimini Mushroom Cream Sauce........38
Maple Sweet Potato Mash paired with Braised Short Ribs......39
Pulled Pork Poutine........................................................................40
Potato Leek Soup with Truffle Oil ..............................................42
Potato Pancakes with PA Smoked Trout ‘Brandade’
and a Lemon-Caper Gremolata.....................................................43

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 10, 2018 · BEEF & VEAL DAY
Italian Winter Roulade with Roasted Sweet Potatoes
and Creamed Kale...........................................................................50
Cajun Dusted Beef Tenderloin
with a Caramel Mushroom Whiskey Sauce.................................51
Braised PA Short Ribs with a Roasted Beet Risotto
and Burgundy Honey Reduction...................................................52
Veal Schnitzel Apple Compote with Potato Latkes
and Warm Cabbage and Beet Slaw ..............................................54

THURSDAY, JANUARY 11, 2018 ·
MILITARY APPRECIATION DAY
Cider Riesling Salad with Poached Pears....................................57
Southern Pork and Peach One-Pan Dinner................................59
Apple Almond Tart with Apricot Glaze......................................61
Apple Cranberry Monkey Bread with Maple Ice Cream...........62
Roasted Pork Tenderloin
with a Thyme Shallot Apple Compote.........................................64

FRIDAY, JANUARY 12, 2018 · PORK DAY
Bacon Wrapped Pork Tenderloin with Brandied Apples..........68

Pork Belly with Acorn Squash Puree
and a Spiced Honey-Lemon Glaze................................................69
Ribs with B1 Sauce..........................................................................72
Pork Scallopini with Spinach, Capers, Lemon,
and IPA Pickled Mustard Seeds....................................................73
Indian River Tortilla Crusted Pork Salad....................................74
Italian Porchetta, Marinated King Trumpet Mushrooms,
Smashed Potato Crisps with an Orange and Rosemary
Vinaigrette.......................................................................................75

SATURDAY, JANUARY 13, 2018 · DAIRY DAY
Lemon Chiboust Tart.....................................................................80
Cheddar Mac and Cheese with BBQ Pork Tenderloin .............81
Fresh Cow’s Milk Mozzarella........................................................82
Roasted Sweet Potato and Goat Cheese Blintz...........................83

PARTICIPATING CULINARY ARTS
PROGRAMS AND FACULTY................................................85
ABOUT PA PREFERRED™..................................................92

S ATU R DAY, JAN UARY 6 , 201 8

MUSHROOM DAY

DI ETI T I AN T I P
Transform everyday meals like meatloaf, tacos and burgers using The
Blend. Simply sauté finely diced mushrooms and combine them with
ground meat to reduce the calories, saturated fat and sodium per
serving, while increasing moisture and rich ‘umami’ flavor.

SPINACH CANNELLONI FILLED WITH
MUSHROOMS AND BARLEY
presented by Michael J. Ditchfield
Instructor
Hospitality Management/Culinary Arts
Pennsylvania College of Technology
Williamsport, PA
Yield: 8 servings

SAUCE
6 Tbsp. butter
¼ cup flour
3 cups milk, scalded
1 bay leaf

Nutmeg, freshly grated, to taste
1 cup half and half
2/3 cup grated Parmesan cheese
Salt and pepper, to taste

In a medium saucepan, melt the butter over low heat and add the flour
to make a roux, whisking for about 3 minutes. Add the scalded milk
to the roux and whisk, bringing it to a simmer. Add the bay leaf and
nutmeg. Simmer for about 20 minutes. Discard the bay leaf. Remove
1 cup for the stuffing. To finish the sauce, add the half and half and
Parmesan cheese to the saucepan. Adjust the seasoning with salt and
pepper to taste.

FILLING
2 cups chicken stock
1 cup pearl barley
3 Tbsp. butter
2 shallots, minced
6 oz. PA mushroom blend, sliced

2 garlic cloves, minced
½ cup grated Parmesan cheese
3 Tbsp. parsley, minced
1 cup sauce from above
Salt and pepper, to taste

Bring the chicken stock to a simmer and add the barley. Cover and
simmer for 30 minutes, or until tender. Add more stock if needed.
Remove from the heat and cool. In a sauté pan, add the butter, shallots,
and mushrooms. Cook until all the liquid has evaporated. Place in a
mixing bowl and combine with the barley, garlic, Parmesan cheese,
parsley and 1 cup of the sauce. Adjust the seasoning with salt and
pepper to taste. Set aside and keep cool.

DOUGH
2 cups flour
½ tsp. salt, plus more for the
cooking water
4 Tbsp. cooked spinach,
squeezed dry
2

2 large eggs
1 Tbsp. olive oil, plus more for the
cooking water

PA PREFERRED™ CULINARY CONNECTION 2018

Add all the ingredients into a food processor and mix until it forms
a ball. Allow the dough to rest for 30 minutes. Roll out onto a floured
surface, an even 1/8" thickness. Cut into 4" squares. Precook the dough
squares in boiling water that has salt and oil added to it. Remove
the pasta and cool. Stuff each pasta with the filling and roll into a
cannelloni shape. Place in a pregreased baking dish and warm through
in a 350˚F oven. The sauce can be added while baking or after
they have been plated. If you add the sauce while baking, finish the
cannellonis under a broiler to brown. Plate and serve.
This recipe was inspired by a 1988 edition of Gourmet Magazine reprint.
WINE PAIRING Olivero's Vineyard Merlot

PA MUSHROOM AND BARLEY SOUP
presented by Lance Smith
Executive Chef
The Millworks
Harrisburg, PA
Yield: 8–10 servings
½ cup barley
Olive oil, as needed
4 garlic cloves
4 thyme sprigs
3 cups water
1 cup PA hen of the woods
mushrooms (maitake)
1 cup PA crimini mushrooms,
quartered
3 PA portabello mushrooms,
large dice
1 cup PA shiitake mushrooms, sliced
½ cup medium dice carrots

½ cup medium dice celery
1 cup medium dice onion
½ cup medium dice fennel
8 thyme sprigs, picked and chopped
¼ bunch parsley, picked and
chopped
1 rosemary sprig, picked and
chopped
8 garlic cloves, sliced thin
½ cup dry sherry
2 quarts vegetable stock
Salt and pepper, to taste

Toast the barley in a small sauce pot with olive oil. Once golden brown
and toasted, add the garlic, thyme and water. Reduce to a low simmer
and cook until the barley is tender.
In a large sauce pot, heat some olive oil on high just until you
begin to see a little smoke coming off of it. Add the hen of the
woods mushrooms and sauté until golden brown. Remove and set
aside. Repeat with all the mushroom varieties, cooking each variety
individually until nice and golden brown, adding oil as needed. Once
all the mushrooms are cooked, add the rest of the vegetables, garlic,
and herbs and sauté until golden brown. Deglaze the pan with the dry
sherry and reduce until almost all the liquid is gone. Add the vegetable
MUSHROOM DAY

3

stock and all the mushrooms back in, simmer for 15–20 minutes.
Season with salt and pepper. Add the cooked barley and serve.
WINE PAIRING Mount Hope Estate & Winery Merlot

COUNTRY FRESH GOURMET BLEND
MUSHROOMS AND SPINACH SAUTÉ
JENNIFER’S STUFFED
MUSHROOM CASSEROLE
MUSHROOM SAUTÉ À LA VINCE
presented by David A. Santucci
Regional Sales Manager
Country Fresh Mushrooms
Avondale, PA
Yield: 4 servings

COUNTRY FRESH GOURMET BLEND MUSHROOMS
AND SPINACH SAUTÉ
4 oz. PA blend mushrooms (sliced
shiitake, baby bella and oyster)
10 oz. fresh spinach
2 large garlic cloves, peeled and
chopped
2 Tbsp. olive oil
¼ cup chicken broth
1 roma tomato, ¼" dice

1 pinch fresh chopped basil
1 pinch garlic salt
1 pinch black pepper, freshly ground
1 Tbsp. salted butter
1 lb. pasta, cooked and kept warm
1 Tbsp. grated Parmesan cheese (or
other favorite hard cheese)

Rinse the mushrooms and spinach in a colander. Chop the spinach
if desired. Heat the oil in a large skillet. Sauté the mushrooms and
garlic over high heat for 2 minutes. Lower the heat and add the broth,
spinach, tomato, basil, garlic salt, and pepper. Simmer until the
mushrooms are tender and the sauce thickens slightly. Remove from
the heat and add the butter; stir to combine. Serve over warm pasta and
sprinkle Parmesan cheese on top.

JENNIFER’S STUFFED MUSHROOM CASSEROLE
"This is a versatile and simple way to prepare a mushroom dish. The recipe is from my
wife of over 30 years, Jennifer. It makes a great main course for a simple weekday meal
that my family loves. Remember, the mushrooms should be cooked only until their water
evaporates so they will remain tender."
4

PA PREFERRED™ CULINARY CONNECTION 2018

4 lbs. PA mushrooms (white
mushrooms, criminis, small
portabellas, or a blend of
varieties may be used)
3 Tbsp. unsalted butter
1 tsp. garlic salt
½ tsp. black pepper, freshly ground

10 ½ oz. condensed cream of
chicken soup
16 oz. sour cream
1 lb. blend of cheeses (Cheddar,
Provolone, Monterey Jack)
3 cups prepared bread stuffing

Rinse the mushrooms and slice into ¼" thick slices; smaller
mushrooms may be quartered. Heat the butter in a large skillet over
medium-high heat. Add the mushrooms, garlic salt, and black pepper.
Sauté for 3–5 minutes over medium-high heat, just until their water
evaporates. Stir in the cream of chicken and sour cream. Transfer the
mushrooms and cream sauce to a large ovenproof casserole or baking
dish. Distribute the cheese evenly on top of the mushroom mixture.
Add the stuffing on the cheese. Don’t smooth the top surface of the
stuffing to allow for better browning and crispness of the rough edges.
Bake uncovered in the oven at 350˚F for 30–45 minutes, or until the
cheese is melted and the stuffing is brown and crispy on top.

MUSHROOM SAUTÉ À LA VINCE
"My family has been in the mushroom business for over 100 years, starting in 1908.
This is a simple recipe my mother always made. It was a favorite when she conducted
demonstrations in grocery stores, because everyone has the ingredients in their pantry.
They just needed to buy fresh mushrooms! It is called Mushrooms à la Vince because
Vincent is my father’s name, and also the name of my brother and my son. Santucci
Secrets: The mushrooms should be cooked only until their water evaporates so they will
remain tender. Butter and spices are not overcooked and retain their natural favor."
1 lb. fresh PA mushrooms (any
variety—white, baby bellas,
shiitakes, oysters)
2 Tbsp. unsalted butter

1 pinch garlic salt
1 pinch black pepper, freshly ground
¼ cup chopped fresh parsley
1 Tbsp. grated Parmesan cheese

Rinse the mushrooms and slice into ¼" thick slices. Smaller
mushrooms may be quartered, and oyster mushrooms should be
separated into individual leaves. Heat half the butter in a large skillet
over medium heat. Add the mushrooms and sauté for 2 minutes over
medium-high heat, just until their water evaporates. For shiitake or
oyster mushrooms which have less moisture, add 2 tablespoons of
water or chicken stock during the sautéing process. Add the parsley,
garlic salt, black pepper and the remaining butter for the last 30
seconds of sautéing. Off the heat, sprinkle with Parmesan cheese on
top and serve as a side dish or as a topping for steak or pasta.
WINE PAIRING Seven Mountains Wine Cellars Chardonnay
MUSHROOM DAY

5

TREDICI MUSHROOM TOAST
presented by Kristina Wisneski
Executive Chef
Enoteca Tredici
Philadelphia, PA
Yield: 6–8 servings

TOPPING
1 lb. PA maitake mushroom
1 lb. PA oyster mushroom
Blended oil, as needed
1 shallot, minced

¼ bunch thyme, minced
Salt and pepper, to taste
1 Tbsp. lemon juice

Cut the stems off of each mushroom; save for the Mushroom Cream.
Using your hands, peel the mushrooms apart into smaller pieces,
similar to shredding them. Heat the blended oil in a very hot sauté
pan, and sauté the mushrooms until golden brown and crispy in small
batches. Once the mushrooms are half way cooked, toss in the minced
shallot and thyme. Season with salt and pepper. To finish, deglaze with
lemon juice and place on a rack to cool.

MUSHROOM CREAM
2 Tbsp. unsalted butter
1 lb. PA mushroom stems
1 shallot, chopped
4 thyme sprigs, chopped

1 Tbsp. lemon juice
¼ cup PA white wine
1 cup heavy cream
Salt and pepper, to taste

While cooking the mushrooms, heat the butter in a sauce pot and
sauté the chopped shallots with the mushroom stems and thyme.
Deglaze with the white wine and lemon juice. Add in the heavy cream
and simmer until the stems are soft. Season with salt and pepper. Cool
slightly and transfer to a blender; blend until smooth.

PLATING
1 loaf sourdough bread,
sliced 1" thick
Mushroom topping
Mushroom cream

¼ cup crème fraîche
¼ cup grated Grana Padano
1 tsp. finely chopped chives
1 Tbsp. olive oil

Grill or hard sear the sourdough in a pan. It should be crispy on the
outside while remaining soft on the inside. Top this seared bread
with the mushroom cream. Place on a baking sheet and top with the
sautéed mushrooms. Bake in a 400˚F oven until the mushrooms are
hot and the crust is nice and crispy. Remove from the baking sheet
6

PA PREFERRED™ CULINARY CONNECTION 2018

and place on a cutting board. Cut into 3 pieces and drizzle with crème
fraîche. Top with grated Grana Padano and finish with olive oil and
chives.
WINE PAIRING Mazza Vineyards Bare Bones Red

HAND-CUT EGG NOODLES WITH
PA MUSHROOMS, LEEKS, AND
DANDELION GREENS
presented by Darren Layre
Sous Chef
Eleven
Pittsburgh, PA
Yield: 4 servings

PASTA DOUGH
10.25 oz. “00” flour
2 1/2 oz. durum wheat (or substitute
4–6 oz. more “00” flour)
3 eggs
3 egg yolks

1 Tbsp. extra-virgin olive oil
½ tsp. salt
Additional flour, as needed for
dusting

Combine both flours and the salt in a bowl. In a separate bowl, whisk
together the eggs, yolks and olive oil. Make a well in the center of the
flour bowl; pour the eggs in the well and stir to combine. Once the
dough is a shaggy mass, begin kneading until the dough is smooth and
elastic, about 10 minutes. Cover, and let the dough rest for 30 minutes.
Cut the dough into 4 pieces. Take out one piece and cover the rest
with plastic wrap. Using a rolling pin, roll the pasta as square as you
can, flouring as necessary, 1/8"–1/16" thick all around. Do not flour too
much; the dough should be slightly tacky but should not be too sticky.
Once the dough is evenly rolled, flour the top heavily. Using the rolling
pin, wrap the dough around the pin like a jelly roll without applying
too much pressure. Flour the dough lightly and using a chef knife,
cut the dough into 1/8"–¼" sections, or as thick as you wish. Flour the
cut dough again and unroll. Place it on a floured sheet tray or kitchen
towel. Let the pasta dry slightly while preparing the dish, or make a
pasta nest and freeze.

MUSHROOM DAY

7

ROASTED GARLIC
1 garlic head
1 tsp. olive oil
Salt and pepper, to taste

Preheat an oven to 350˚F. Cut the garlic across the top so the tops of
the cloves are showing. Rub with olive oil and season lightly with salt
and pepper. Wrap in aluminum foil and place it in the oven. Roast
for 30–45 minutes, until tender and easily smashed. Remove from the
oven and cool. Once cool enough to handle, squeeze the garlic from
the cloves, removing the skins as needed. Smash the garlic with a chef
knife.

MUSHROOMS, LEEKS, AND DANDELION GREENS
20 oz. assorted PA mushrooms,
medium dice
Vegetable oil, as needed
4–6 oz. cold butter, cut into small
chunks
1 medium leek, rinsed well,
julienned

8 oz. dandelion greens, washed,
stemmed, and chopped
1 Tbsp. chopped rosemary
2 tsp. roasted garlic, smashed
2 fl. oz. PA white wine
6 oz. Fontina cheese, grated fine
Salt and pepper, as needed

Heat a large sauté pan over high heat and add the oil. At the same
time, fill a large pot with lightly salted water and bring to boil. When
the oil starts to smoke in the sauté pan, add the mushrooms and cook
until caramelized. When all the mushrooms are evenly browned, add
a piece of butter and toss; this will caramelize the mushrooms further.
Work in batches as needed for even caramelization; do not crowd the
pan. When they are fully caramelized, return all the mushrooms to the
pan and add the leeks. Reduce the heat to medium, stirring constantly.
Add the chopped dandelion greens, rosemary, and roasted garlic,
stirring constantly for 1 minute. Deglaze the pan with the wine and
cook for 2 minutes, until almost dry. Turn off the heat.
In the pot of boiling salted water, drop the fresh pasta, working in
batches if needed. Cook until al dente, about 4–5 minutes. Taste a
noodle to test for doneness before removing. Before straining the
pasta, reserve 8 ounces of the pasta water for the sauce. Strain the
pasta and let it drain while making the sauce.
Add 6–8 fluid ounces of the pasta water to the sauté pan with the
mushrooms and return to a low heat. Begin adding small chunks of
cold butter until the sauce becomes glossy and smooth. Ensure it is
neither too watery nor too thick like a paste. Add the cooked pasta
8

PA PREFERRED™ CULINARY CONNECTION 2018

and toss to combine, moving the contents to a larger bowl or pan if
needed to mix. Add enough sauce to nicely coat the pasta. Add a little
of the Fontina cheese to the pasta until slightly creamy, stirring to
incorporate. Season with salt and pepper and serve immediately. Top
with Fontina to finish.
WINE PAIRING Glades Pike Winery Riesling

2017 UNCLE MAYHAM’S
MUSHROOM BURGER
presented by Jerry Gates and Chris Schriver
Bar-B-Que Mayham
2017 Blended Burger Competition Winner
Yield: 6 half-pound burgers

BAR-B-QUE MAYHAM BURGER RUB
4 Tbsp. Lawry’s seasoned salt
½ tsp. Accent seasoning
¼ tsp. coarse ground black pepper

¼ tsp. minced onion flakes
1/8 tsp. parsley flakes

Combine all the ingredients. Reserve 2 tablespoons for the burger
meat and put the remainder in a shaker.

BURGER MEAT
2 lbs. 85/15 ground chuck
2 lbs. 93/7 ground sirloin

4 oz. PA white button mushrooms
2 Tbsp. burger rub

Dice the mushrooms and combine with the meats and burger rub.
Place in a sealed container and refrigerate until needed.

BURGER STUFFING
4 oz. PA button mushrooms
1 Tbsp. butter
Burger rub, as needed
8 oz. cream cheese, room
temperature

1 roasted red pepper, diced
1 cup shredded swiss cheese
1 cup shredded Gruyère cheese
1 Tbsp. dried chives

Dice the mushrooms and sauté in butter until tender. Sprinkle with
the burger rub and let cool. Combine the cooled mushrooms with the
remaining ingredients. Transfer to a bowl, cover, and refrigerate until
needed.

MUSHROOM DAY

9

ASSEMBLING THE STUFFED BURGERS
Burger meat
Cream cheese mixture
3 PA portabella mushrooms, sliced

3 Tbsp. butter, thinly sliced
Burger rub, as needed

Press the burger meat into a stuffed burger mold. Add 1 tablespoon of
the cream cheese mixture. Add 4 slices of portabella mushroom. Place
1 thin slice of butter on top. Add the burger meat on top and seal the
mold. Season both sides of the burgers with the burger rub. Cover and
refrigerate until needed.

JALAPEÑO TRUFFLE MAYO
Oil, as needed
3 jalapeños, diced
2 tsp. minced garlic

1 cup Hampton Creek Just Mayo,
Truffle flavor

In a lightly oiled pan, sauté the jalapeños and garlic until tender. Set
aside to cool. Once cool, combine with the mayo and refrigerate until
needed.

BURGER TOPPING
1 red pepper, cut into ¼" rings
1 red onion, cut into ¼" rings
4 oz. PA sliced baby portabellas or
shitake mushrooms

Burger rub, as needed
All-purpose flour, as needed
3 Tbsp. butter, divided

Season the onion and pepper rings with the burger rub. Toss the
mushrooms in flour and sprinkle with the burger rub. Place the
onions in a cast iron skillet. Add 1 tablespoon of butter, sauté until
caramelized, and remove. Add another tablespoon of butter and
the red pepper rings. Sauté until tender and remove. Add the last
tablespoon of butter, then drop in the flour-seasoned mushrooms.
Sauté until golden brown. Cover until needed to keep warm.

BURGER COOKING AND BUILD UP
6 stuffed burgers
12 slices Swiss cheese
3 Tbsp. salted butter, thinly sliced
Remaining cream cheese mixture
Burger toppings

6 brioche buns
Olive oil spray, as needed
Jalapeño Truffle Mayo
4 oz. baby arugula
Famous Dave’s Spicy Pickle Chips

Bring a charcoal or gas grill to 350–400˚F. Place the burgers on the
grill and cook each side for 5 minutes until the internal temperature
reaches 150–155˚F. While the burgers are cooking, place the sautéed
onion, mushrooms, and peppers in foil and reheat on the grill. When
10

PA PREFERRED™ CULINARY CONNECTION 2018

the burgers reach the desired temperature, add a thin slice of butter,
then a slice of Swiss cheese. Let the cheese melt, then add a thin layer
of the cream cheese mixture. Allow it to melt and remove the burgers
from the grill. While the cheeses are melting, spray the brioche buns
with olive oil spray and toast on the grill.
Spread a light layer of Jalapeño Truffle Mayo on the bottom toasted
bun. Add a slice of Swiss cheese. Add the burger, followed by the
sautéed mushrooms, caramelized onions, and red peppers. Top with
arugula. Spread a light layer of Jalapeño Truffle Mayo on the top bun
and place on top. Serve with Famous Dave’s Spicy Pickle Chips. Hold
the burger together with a bamboo skewer and enjoy!
WINE PAIRING Winery at Wilcox Elk Country Red

MUSHROOM DAY

11

S U NDAY, JAN UARY 7, 201 8

VEGETABLE DAY

DI ETI T I AN T I P
Vegetables play an essential role in a healthy diet and provide
a variety of important nutrients, including potassium,
fiber, folate (folic acid) and vitamins A, C and E.
Fill half of your plate with colorful produce at each meal.

VEGAN BUDDHA FALAFEL TACOS
WITH ROOT VEGETABLES
presented by Kristin Messner-Baker
Owner and Executive Chef
Vegetable Hunter
Harrisburg, PA
Yield: 4 tacos

ROOT VEGETABLES
Nonstick vegetable or coconut oil
spray
8 Tbsp. vegan butter, melted
1 sweet potato, peeled and sliced
thinly

1 turnip, peeled and sliced thinly
1 carrot, peeled and sliced thinly
1 beet, peeled and sliced thinly
1 tsp. fresh thyme leaves
Salt and pepper, to taste

Preheat an oven to 400°F. Spray 2 ovenproof skillets with a nonstick
vegetable or coconut oil spray. Add 2 tablespoons of melted vegan
butter to each pan. In the first pan, arrange the sweet potato slices
evenly on the bottom of the pan. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. Layer
turnip slices evenly on top of sweet potatoes. Sprinkle with salt and
pepper. Layer carrot slices evenly over turnip. Sprinkle with salt and
pepper. Drizzle with 2 tablespoons melted vegan butter and top with ½
teaspoon of fresh thyme. To avoid bleeding into the other vegetables,
layer beet slices in the second pan. Sprinkle each layer with salt and
pepper. Drizzle with 2 tablespoons of melted vegan butter and top
with ½ teaspoon of fresh thyme. Cook the vegetables over medium-low
heat, covered, for about 25 minutes. Uncover and transfer the skillet to
the oven. Bake uncovered until the vegetables are tender, about 20–25
minutes.

FALAFEL
Yields 8
1 cup dried chickpeas, rinsed
4 scallions, chopped
1/8 cup chopped parsley
1/8 cup chopped cilantro
3 medium garlic cloves, chopped

¾ tsp. salt
½ tsp. ground black pepper
¼ tsp. cumin
1/8 tsp. cinnamon
Vegetable oil, for frying

Put the chickpeas in a large bowl and cover with water by about 4".
Soak in the refrigerator overnight, adding more water if necessary
to keep the chickpeas covered. Drain the chickpeas and place in the
bowl of a food processor. Add all of the other ingredients except for
the oil and process until smooth, scraping down the sides of the bowl
14

PA PREFERRED™ CULINARY CONNECTION 2018

as necessary. Form heaping tablespoons of the falafel mixture into
patties about ½" thick and about 1" wide. Heat ½" of oil in a medium
pan over medium heat. When the oil is hot and shimmering, add half
of the falafel patties to the pan. Lift the falafel with a metal spatula
occasionally so it doesn’t stick. When the first side is golden, flip and
cook a few minutes on the other side. The total cook time should be
about 5 minutes. Using a slotted spoon, transfer the falafel to a paper
towel-lined plate to drain. Cook the second batch.

CREAMY VEGAN HORSERADISH SAUCE
1 cup soy milk
6 Tbsp. prepared horseradish

¾ tsp. sea salt
Fresh ground pepper, to taste

Put all the ingredients in a blender and blend together for one minute.

TACO SHELLS
4 corn tortillas
Vegetable oil, coconut oil, or grapeseed oil

Heat a pan over medium heat. Cover the pan with a thin layer of
vegetable oil. When the oil is heated, place a tortilla in the pan and
cook until golden brown. Flip and cook the other side, about 1 minute
each side. Remove from the pan to a paper towel-lined plate. Take
another few layers of paper towels and fold the tortilla in half so it
keeps a taco shape. Repeat with the remaining tortillas.

ASSEMBLY
Taco shells
Falafel
Root vegetables
2 oz. red cabbage, julienned

Horseradish sauce
1 bunch cilantro leaves
6–8 scallions, chopped

Place two falafel in a line in a taco shell. Next to the falafel, layer a few
slices of sweet potato, then a few slices of beet, then a few slices of
turnip, and then a few slices of carrot. On the other side of the falafel,
place some julienned red cabbage. Use a squeeze bottle to drizzle the
top with the horseradish sauce. Finish with the cilantro and scallions.
WINE PAIRING Arundel Cellars & Brewing Company Riesling

VEGETABLE DAY

15

AQUAPONIC GREENS AND MICRO
GREENS, SPAGHETTI SQUASH AND
FRESH HERB FRITTERS, GINGER
INFUSED GOLDEN BEETS, TOASTED
SQUASH SEEDS, AND A CRANBERRY
CITRUS VINAIGRETTE
presented by Kurt Wewer
Executive Chef and General Manager
Little Bird at Ever Grain Brewing Co
Camp Hill, PA
Yield: 6–8 servings

SPAGHETTI SQUASH AND FRESH HERB FRITTERS
1 spaghetti squash, 3–4 lbs.
1 tsp. kosher salt, plus more
for dusting
¼ tsp. cracked pepper
¼ cup chopped fresh herbs, such as
flat parsley, sage, and thyme (one
or all)
2 Tbsp. thin-shaved scallions

2 tsp. minced garlic
Zest of 1 lemon
¼ cup chopped and toasted nuts
(walnuts, pistachios, or almonds)
1 large egg
3 Tbsp. all-purpose flour
Olive oil, as needed
1 tsp. chipotle powder, for dusting

Cut the spaghetti squash in half, from pole to pole. Remove the
innards and seeds and reserve. Rub the squash lightly with olive oil
and place the cut side down on a cookie sheet. Roast in the oven at
400˚F for 45 minutes, or until completely soft. Allow to cool to room
temperature and scrape out the flesh with a fork into a large mixing
bowl. Add the salt, pepper, chopped herbs, scallions, garlic, lemon
zest, nuts, egg, and flour to the squash in the bowl. Mix with a spoon or
by hand until everything comes together.
Pour a ¼" layer of olive oil into a high-sided skillet over medium-high
heat. The temperature should be approximately 350–360˚F. Scoop
mounded tablespoons of the batter into the hot oil. Fry until golden
brown on one side, then flip and fry until golden brown on the other.
Season lightly with salt or chipotle powder before serving.

16

PA PREFERRED™ CULINARY CONNECTION 2018

GINGER INFUSED BEETS
2 lbs. golden beets
Olive oil, as needed to coat
1 tsp. kosher salt

Pinch ground white pepper
2 Tbsp. minced ginger
1 cup water

Rub the beets with the olive oil, just enough to coat. Place into a
baking dish and cover with foil. Roast in a 350˚F oven until easily
pierced by a knife, approximately 35 minutes depending on the size of
the beets. Cool the beets to room temperature. Using a kitchen towel,
rub the skin off of the beets. Slice them into rounds, between 1/8" and
¼" thick.
Place the salt, white pepper, ginger and water into the carafe of a
blender. Blend on high until pulverized. Pour through a fine mesh
strainer. Discard the minced ginger and save the ginger flavored water.
Lay the beets out in a single layer in either a ziplock back, or a vacuum
seal bag (if you have a vacuum seal machine). Keeping the beets flat on
the table, pour the ginger juice into the bag. It won’t completely cover,
but it will still infuse. If using a ziploc bag, insert a straw into one
corner, just inside the bag, and zip all the way to the straw. Suck out
the air from the bag, and quickly zip the bag shut. Adversely, if using
a vacuum seal machine, place the bag into the machine, and vacuum
seal on the medium setting. Refrigerate the beets for 24 hours, flipping
over after 12 hours. They can infuse for as long as 48 hours, but must
be flipped regularly to maintain equal infusion throughout. These
beets can be served as they are, or can be cooked again, but the ginger
flavor will be brighter and stronger the less cooked they are before
being served.

TOASTED SQUASH SEEDS
Reserved squash innards and seeds
Salt water bath

Olive oil, as needed
Salt, as needed

Make a salt water bath by combining 1 cup room temperature water
with ½ teaspoon kosher salt. Mix until the salt is dissolved. Multiply
the ingredients to the amount needed for the seeds from your specific
squash. Place the reserved squash innards and seeds into a large
container of cold water. Pick out the seeds, rubbing the slimy innards
off the seeds. Place the seeds in the prepared salt water bath. Allow
the seeds to sit at room temperature for 4 hours. Drain the seeds and
lay out on paper towels to dry completely. Toss in just enough olive oil
to coat the seeds, and place them in a single layer onto a cookie tray.

VEGETABLE DAY

17

Roast in a 325˚F oven for 45 minutes. Add salt if desired after roasting
and tasting.

CRANBERRY CITRUS VINAIGRETTE
3 1/2 oz. gelled cranberry sauce, room
temperature
2 tsp. lemon juice
1 tsp. apple cider vinegar
¼ tsp. white pepper

¼ tsp. fine salt
¼ tsp. ground cardamom
¼ tsp. vanilla bean paste or extract
¾ cup olive oil
½ tsp. Dijon mustard

Place all the ingredients into a mason jar with the lid screwed on.
Shake for a few minutes until the dressing is completely emulsified
and evenly incorporated. You can also use a blender or immersion
blender.

FINISHING
4 oz. aquaponic greens and
microgreens
Spaghetti Squash and Fresh Herb
Fritters

Ginger Infused Golden Beets
Toasted Squash Seeds
Cranberry Citrus Vinaigrette

Combine your favorite aquaponic greens and microgreens on a plate.
Lightly drizzle the vinaigrette. Place the squash fritters and beets and
finish with the toasted squash seeds.
WINE PAIRING Juniata Valley Winery Slàinte

STUFFED WHITE MUSHROOMS
presented by Alex Guarnaschelli
Iron Chef, Food Network Celebrity Chef, Cookbook Author and
Executive Chef at New York City’s Butter Restaurant
Yield: 6–8 servings
“This is make-ahead heaven to me. I often prepare these mushrooms a day or two in
advance and then bake and broil them when we’re ready to eat. I learned about the
great combination of white mushrooms and dry vermouth (TK). The vermouth intensifies
the earthy notes and meaty texture. Adding the sour cream rounds out the picture with
richness.”

18

PA PREFERRED™ CULINARY CONNECTION 2018

¼ cup extra-virgin olive oil
1 medium yellow onion, minced
2 medium garlic cloves, minced
4 sprigs fresh thyme
Kosher salt and freshly ground
white pepper
2 ½ lbs. large white mushrooms,
stems on
¾ cup dry vermouth

½ cup full-fat sour cream
Grated zest and juice of 1 lemon
Leaves from 6 sprigs fresh tarragon,
coarsely chopped
2 Tbsp. unsalted butter
½ cup freshly grated ParmigianoReggiano cheese
¼ cup panko bread crumbs, toasted

Make the stuffing: Heat a large skillet over medium heat. Add the
olive oil, onions, garlic, thyme sprigs, and season with salt and pepper.
Cook until the onions are tender, 3 to 5 minutes. Meanwhile, trim the
stems of about ¼ pound of the mushrooms and slice them thinly. Add
the sliced mushrooms and cook for 2 to 3 minutes. Add ¼ cup of the
vermouth and cook until the mushrooms are tender and a lot of their
liquid has evaporated, 8 to 10 minutes. Remove the thyme sprigs. Add
the sour cream and allow it to melt over the mushrooms. Then add
the lemon zest, half of the lemon juice, and the tarragon. Taste for
seasoning and transfer the stuffing to a bowl.
Cook the whole mushrooms: Rinse and wipe out the skillet and return
it to medium heat. Add the butter and all of the remaining mushrooms,
and season with salt and pepper. Add the remaining ½ cup vermouth
and cook until the mushrooms are tender, 10 to 12 minutes. Taste for
seasoning. Transfer the mushrooms to a baking sheet to cool.
Preheat the oven to 350˚F.
Stuff and bake the mushrooms: Remove the mushroom stems, set the
caps aside, and coarsely chop the stems. Toss the chopped stems and ¼
cup of the Parmigiano-Reggiano with the stuffing. Fill each mushroom
cap with stuffing, packing it in firmly. Arrange the mushrooms in
a single layer on a large baking sheet. Mix the bread crumbs with
the remaining ¼ cup Parmigiano-Reggiano and use it to top the
mushrooms. Bake in the oven until they are hot inside and lightly
browned on top, 5 to 8 minutes. Then run the mushrooms under the
broiler for 1 to 2 minutes as a finishing touch. Sprinkle the remaining
lemon juice over them and serve immediately.
WINE PAIRING Seven Mountains Wine Cellars Chardonnay

VEGETABLE DAY

19

PA MUSHROOM SOUP WITH
MASHED RED POTATOES
presented by Richard McGlynn III
Garde Manger Chef
Morcilla
Pittsburgh, PA
Yield: 4 servings

PA MUSHROOM SOUP
4 oz. butter, browned
2 Tbsp. all-purpose flour
2 Tbsp. butter, melted
2 oz. onions, julienne
3 oz. PA crimini mushrooms,
medium dice

3 oz. PA oyster mushrooms,
roughly chopped
20 oz. water
2 Tbsp. sauerkraut juice
1 tsp. salt
½ tsp. black pepper

To brown the butter, place the butter in a small pot over medium to
medium-high heat. Bring the butter to a light boil and stir. Allow
the milk fat that is floating on the top of the butter to fall to the
bottom of the pot and start to brown; keep an eye on it so it doesn’t
burn. Your butter will have a deep golden/amber color when it is
ready; approximately 5–8 minutes. Strain the butter and allow to cool.
Reserve.
Make a white roux by mixing the flour and melted butter together in a
sauté pan with a whisk. Cook over medium heat for 2 minutes. Remove
from the heat, cool and reserve.
Reserving 1 tablespoon of brown butter, caramelize the onions in the
remaining brown butter, on medium-low heat, stirring occasionally.
Once the onions begin to brown, stir in the mushrooms and lightly
brown. Next, add the water and sauerkraut juice and bring to a boil.
Season with salt and pepper and stir in the roux. Bring back up to a
light boil, and allow to boil for five minutes. Remove from the heat
and keep warm. Serve the soup over the Mashed Red Potatoes, recipe
follows.
Note: If you desire a richer flavor, try adding some of the sauerkraut in addition to the
juice.

20

PA PREFERRED™ CULINARY CONNECTION 2018

MASHED RED POTATOES
10 oz. PA red potatoes, quartered
2 oz. milk
1 Tbsp. butter

1 Tbsp. brown butter, reserved
from above
¼ tsp. salt
1/8 tsp. black pepper

Add the potatoes to a pot, and cover with water. Bring to a boil, and
boil for 12–15 minutes until fork tender. Strain the potatoes and place
back in the pot over low heat for 3 minutes. If using a stand mixer,
place in the mixing bowl; otherwise use a hand blender. Add the
butters, seasoning, and milk. Whip until smooth and airy. Hold warm
and serve with the mushroom soup.
WINE PAIRING Mazza Vineyards Pinot Grigio

BROILED CAULIFLOWER STEAKS
WITH PARSLEY AND LEMON
presented by Alex Guarnaschelli
Iron Chef, Food Network Celebrity Chef, Cookbook Author and
Executive Chef at New York City’s Butter Restaurant
Yield: 4 servings (or 8 to 10 as a side dish)
“This is such a great dish because you can marinate the cauliflower ahead of time and
then cook it just before you’re ready to eat. I have been known to marinate this cauliflower
for up to two days before cooking! The richness of the coconut and the slight heat from
the red pepper flakes give the earthy vegetable just what it needs.”
2 large heads cauliflower,
2–2 ½ lbs. each
Kosher salt
2, 13.5 oz. cans unsweetened
coconut milk
2 Tbsp. coriander seeds,
lightly crushed

2 tsp. crushed red pepper flakes
2 Tbsp. fresh lemon juice
2 Tbsp. red wine vinegar
2/3 cup extra-virgin olive oil
1 cup fresh flat-leaf parsley leaves

Prepare the cauliflower: Put one head of cauliflower upright on a
cutting board. Using a large knife and picturing that you will be
creating 2 large steaks, trim a little off each side so that when you
split the cauliflower down the middle, each half will lie flat. Now cut
the cauliflower in half to make two steaks, each weighing just shy of a
pound. Repeat with the other head of cauliflower.
Blanch the cauliflower: In a pot that is large enough to hold the
cauliflower steaks, bring 6 quarts of water to a rolling boil and add 2
tablespoons of salt. The water should taste like mild seawater. Line a
VEGETABLE DAY

21

baking sheet with a kitchen towel. Add the cauliflower steaks to the
boiling water and cook until they are slightly tender when pierced
with the tip of a knife, 6 to 8 minutes. Use a slotted spoon or spatula to
carefully remove them from the water, transferring them immediately
to the baking sheet.
Marinate the cauliflower: In a container that is large enough to snugly
contain the cauliflower in a single layer, whisk the coconut milk
with the coriander seeds and red pepper flakes, and season with salt.
Submerge the steaks in the marinade, cover with plastic wrap, and
refrigerate for 4 hours or up to 48 hours.
Make the vinaigrette: In a medium bowl, whisk together the lemon
juice, red wine vinegar, and olive oil.
Preheat the oven to 375˚F.
Cook the cauliflower: Remove the cauliflower from the coconut milk
and arrange the steaks in a single layer on a baking sheet. Season with
salt. Roast until tender, 10 to 15 minutes. Then heat the broiler and
put the baking sheet under the broiler until the top of the cauliflower
chars, 3 to 5 minutes. Transfer the steaks to a serving platter (or
individual plates) and drizzle liberally with the vinaigrette. Top with
the parsley and serve immediately.
WINE PAIRING Mazza Vineyards Pinot Grigio

22

PA PREFERRED™ CULINARY CONNECTION 2018

VEGGIE PASTA WITH CONTEMPORARY
TOMATO CREAM SAUCE
presented by Paul E. Mach, CSW
Assistant Professor
Department of Hospitality, School of Business
Pennsylvania College of Technology
Williamsport, PA
Yield: 6 servings

CONTEMPORARY TOMATO CREAM SAUCE
¼ cup virgin olive oil
¼ cup fresh garlic, chopped fine
½ cup Spanish onions, chopped fine
1/3 cup pumpkin seeds, shelled
¼ cup fresh basil, chopped fine
¼ cup fresh sage, chopped fine
¼ cup fresh parsley, chopped fine

4 cups plum tomatoes, skinned and
seeded, rough chopped
1 ½ cups black turtle beans, drained,
rinsed
1 cup heavy cream
½ cup cold water
¼ cup cornstarch
Salt and pepper, as needed 	

Sauté the garlic in oil until golden brown. Add the onions, pumpkin
seeds, sage, basil, and parsley and sauté until lightly browned. Add the
tomatoes, beans, and heavy cream and simmer for 10 minutes. Blend
together the cold water and cornstarch. While boiling, slowly pour and
whisk in a little cornstarch slurry, as needed, until the sauce thickens
lightly. Season to taste.

VEGGIE PASTA
12 oz. spiral cut zucchini
12 oz. spiral cut carrots
12 oz. spiral cut white turnip
12 oz. spiral cut golden beets

½ cup virgin olive oil
Salt and pepper, as needed 	
Shredded Parmesan cheese, as
needed

In a large sauté pan over high heat, add a portion of the oil and in
small batches lightly brown and wilt the zucchini, carrots, turnip and
beets. Remove to a bowl until all the vegetables are tender and lightly
browned. Toss the vegetables with a third of the sauce. Season to taste
with salt and pepper. Plate the vegetable pasta and top with a portion
of the sauce, grated cheese, and additional olive oil and pepper.
WINE PAIRING Winery at Wilcox Elk Country Red

VEGETABLE DAY

23

With over 5,000 natural &
organic items throughout the store.
TO LOCATE A STORE NEAR YOU, GO TO:

WEISMARKETS.COM/STORES

M O NDAY, JAN UARY 8 , 201 8

WEIS DAY

DI ETI T I AN T I P
As a proud supporter of local farmers, Weis Markets purchases more
than 26 million pounds of local produce each year from farms in
Pennsylvania, Maryland, New York and New Jersey. Additionally, all
Weis Quality Milk comes from PA Dairy Farms.

PA PORK AND SAUERKRAUT
presented by Rosemarie “Qui Qui” Musarra
Owner and Executive Chef
Mangia Qui, Suba, and Rubicon
Harrisburg, PA
Yield: 8–12 servings

PORK
1 PA baby back rib
2 Tbsp. light brown sugar
1/3 cup sea salt or kosher salt
¼ Tbsp. curing salt
6 lbs. sauerkraut, recipe follows
Olive oil, as needed
3 medium Spanish onions,
julienne with the grain
1/3 cup chopped garlic
2 large carrots, peeled and cut into
2" pieces
1 Tbsp. allspice berries
1 Tbsp. juniper berries

6 fresh bay leaves
2 Tbsp. caraway seed
1 PA smoked ham hock
13 oz. PA dry white wine
7 oz. dry gin
3–4 cups chicken stock
Salt and pepper, to taste
Optional:
5–6 lbs. mixed PA charcuterie, such
as kielbasa, boudin blanc, garlic
sausage, Canadian bacon, game
sausages, etc.

Mix the brown sugar, salt, and curing salt together and rub the ribs
thoroughly. Wrap the ribs in plastic wrap and place in the refrigerator
for up to 24 hours.
Preheat an oven to 300˚F. Sauté the onions in the oil until translucent.
Add the garlic and cook for 1–2 more minutes. Remove from the heat.
Rinse the sauerkraut and squeeze well. Transfer to a bowl, and toss
with the carrots, allspice berries, juniper berries, bay leaves, caraway
seeds, and the sautéed onion and garlic.
In the bottom of a Dutch oven or roasting pan, spread a layer of the
sauerkraut mixture to cover the bottom. Lay the ribs and ham hock on
top and cover with the remaining sauerkraut. Add the chicken stock,
gin, and white wine. Lightly season with salt and pepper. Bring to a
boil then reduce to a simmer and cover tightly with aluminum foil for
1 ½–2 hours. Remove from the oven and check the level of the liquid.
Add more chicken stock if necessary and adjust the seasoning. Add
the optional charcuterie and cook for another 45 minutes, covered.
Remove the ribs and ham hock and pick the meat. Plate and serve.

26

PA PREFERRED™ CULINARY CONNECTION 2018

HOMEMADE FERMENTED SAUERKRAUT
Inspired by Daniel Gritzer
1 small PA green cabbage,
about 3 lbs.
3 Tbsp. kosher salt,
plus more to taste later

1 Tbsp. caraway seeds and juniper
berries, optional

Trim and core the cabbage. Remove the outer leaves and set aside for
later. Shred the remaining cabbage. Using a large fermentation crock,
add the shredded cabbage to the crock, sprinkling in the measured salt
and the optional spices as you go. If using a ball jar, put the shredded
cabbage in a large mixing bowl and sprinkle with the measured salt
and optional spices. Mix well, then knead and squeeze the cabbage for
a few minutes to begin to release its liquid. Cover the cabbage with
plastic wrap or the crock’s lid. Squeeze and knead the cabbage roughly
every 15 minutes, until an ample amount of brine has formed. There
should be enough liquid to cover the cabbage when the cabbage is
compressed. This can take up to 4 hours. If not enough brine forms,
proceed to the next step after 4 hours. If using a ball jar, pack the
shredded cabbage into the jar now, with all of its accumulated brine.
Lay the reserved cabbage leaves on top of the cooked cabbage and
press down until the brine rises ½–1" above the cabbage. Add stone
or glass weights and push down to compress even more. If there is not
enough brine, top it with a 2% salt brine using 1 cup of water with a
heaping teaspoon of kosher salt. Seal the fermentation crock or ball
jar with the airlock lid following the manufacturer’s instructions. Put
in a cool, dark place; 65–70˚F is ideal. After a day or two, or three,
the fermentation process should be bubbling away. If the vessel is
quite full, it’s best to put a rimmed baking sheet under it to catch any
overflowing liquids.
After the first week, open the vessel and push the cabbage back
down below the brine level. It’s very important that the cabbage
always remains below the liquid level. If the brine gets low, top it
with more of the 2% salt water brine. Taste the cabbage to monitor its
progress. The sauerkraut is ready when it is quite sour, which can take
anywhere from 3–6 weeks, depending on your preference. Throw out
the sauerkraut if it becomes discolored, slimy, or malodorous. Some
sulfurous smell is natural, but anything truly offensive is a bad sign.
Refrigerate in sealed containers for up to 6 months.
WINE PAIRING Spring Gate Vineyard Riesling

WEIS DAY

27

SWEET POTATO AND BLACK BEAN CHILI
presented by Kathryn Long, RDN, LDN
and Erin Dunleavy, MS, RDN, LDN
Healthy Living Coordinators
Weis Markets, Inc.
Sunbury, PA
Yield: 8 one-cup servings
2 Tbsp. Weis Quality extra-virgin
olive oil
1 medium yellow onion, chopped
1 large jalapeño pepper, seeded and
finely chopped
5 medium tomatoes, chopped
(or 2, 14.5 oz. cans no-salt-added
diced tomatoes)
3 garlic cloves, minced
2 tsp. fresh grated ginger
½ tsp. Weis Quality ground
cinnamon

½ tsp. salt
4 cups diced sweet potatoes
4 cups low-sodium vegetable broth
2, 15.5 oz. cans Weis Quality no-saltadded black beans, drained and
rinsed
1 Tbsp. Weis Quality honey
Plain Greek yogurt, optional
Coarsely chopped fresh cilantro,
optional

In a large stockpot, heat the oil over medium heat. Add the onion and
jalapeño; cook for 3 minutes, stirring occasionally. Add the tomatoes
and cook 5 minutes or until the tomatoes have broken down and the
onion is soft, stirring occasionally. Stir in the garlic, ginger, cinnamon
and salt; cook for 1 minute. Add the sweet potatoes and broth. Increase
the heat to medium-high and bring to a simmer. Reduce the heat
to medium-low and cook for 10 minutes or until the sweet potatoes
are tender, stirring occasionally. Add the beans and honey; cook for
15 minutes or until thickened, stirring occasionally. Serve with the
optional garnishes if desired.
WINE PAIRING Starr Hill Vineyard & Winery Riesling

28

PA PREFERRED™ CULINARY CONNECTION 2018

ALMOND CRUSTED PA RAINBOW TROUT
WITH A BUTTERNUT SQUASH PUREE
AND SAUTÉED KALE AND APPLES
presented by Barry Crumlich
Executive Chef
The Pennsylvania Governor’s Residence
Harrisburg, PA
Yield: 4 servings

BUTTERNUT SQUASH PUREE
1 ½ lb. peeled PA butternut squash
1 tsp. ground coriander
2 Tbsp. olive oil

Salt and pepper, to taste
2 Tbsp. butter
¼ cup chicken or vegetable stock

Preheat an oven to 350˚F. Dice the squash into 1" pieces. Transfer to
a mixing bowl and toss with the olive oil, coriander, salt and pepper.
Place the squash in a baking dish and cover with parchment paper,
then wrap with foil. Bake for approximately 30 minutes or until the
squash is tender. Remove the squash from the oven and place in the
bowl of a food processor. Start to blend, adding the butter while the
processor is running. Allow the butter to combine with the puree, then
add the stock. Blend until smooth.

SAUTÉED KALE AND APPLES
2 Tbsp. olive oil
1 medium sweet onion, cut into 1"
thick slices
2 garlic cloves, minced
1 Tbsp. grated ginger
2 PA Granny Smith apples, peeled,
½"dice

½ cup dried cranberries
1 Tbsp. curry powder
12 oz. cleaned kale leaves, stems
removed
½ cups chicken or vegetable stock
Salt and pepper, to taste

Preheat a large sauté pan over medium high heat, add the olive oil
and onions. Reduce the heat to medium and sauté until the onions
are tender, 3–5 minutes. Add the garlic and ginger and sauté for one
minute. Add the diced apples, dried cranberries and curry powder
and sauté for five minutes. Place the kale into the sauté pan in two
increments, allowing the first batch to slightly wilt before adding
the rest. Add the stock and simmer until the kale leaves are tender,

WEIS DAY

29

approximately 5 minutes. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Remove
from the heat and set aside for plating.

ALMOND CRUSTED PA RAINBOW TROUT
4 boneless PA trout fillets,
5–6 oz. each
3 large eggs
½ cup milk
1 cup flour, seasoned with salt and
pepper

2 cups coarsely ground corn flakes
1 cup coarsely ground sliced
almonds
4 Tbsp. olive oil

Trim the belly fat off the trout fillets and score the skin side several
times to help prevent the fillet from curling. Whisk the eggs and
milk together and transfer to a shallow pan. Place the seasoned flour
into a second shallow pan and combine the cornflakes and almonds
into a third shallow pan. Dredge the trout fillets, one at a time, in the
seasoned flour, then place into the egg wash and coat well. Remove it
from the egg wash and allow the excess egg to drip off before placing
into the almond cornflake breading. Coat the fillet completely on both
sides.
Preheat a large sauté pan over medium high heat and add the olive oil.
Place the trout fillets, skin side down, into the pan. Reduce the heat to
medium and cook for 3 minutes. Carefully flip the fillets and cook for
an additional 3–4 minutes. The fish should be fairly firm and golden
brown at this point.

PLATING
To serve, place a small portion of the puree on the plate with the
sautéed kale. Rest the trout fillet over both and serve.
WINE PAIRING Cassel Vineyards of Hershey Chardonnay

30

PA PREFERRED™ CULINARY CONNECTION 2018

CANNELLONI FEATURING DELGROSSO
GARLIC AND CHEESE SAUCE
presented by David Taddei
Executive Chef
Kitchens of DelGrosso’s Amusement Park, Inc.
& Marianna Foods, Inc.
Tipton, PA
Yield: 6–8 servings
3 oz. olive oil
3 large shallots, diced
1 lb. ground sausage
½ rosemary sprig, coarse chopped
18 oz. fresh spinach
Pinch of salt
Pinch of pepper
Pinch of granulated garlic
1 ¼ cups PA white wine (Moscato)

1 rotisserie chicken
8 oz. ricotta cheese
8 oz. shredded mozzarella cheese
4 oz. Romano cheese, grated
2 boxes of cannelloni pasta
(24 tubes)
3 jars DelGrosso Garlic and
Cheese Sauce

Heat the olive oil in a large preheated skillet over medium-high heat.
Add the diced shallots and cook until they start to caramelize. Turn
the heat to high and place the crumbled sausage and rosemary into
the skillet. Keep stirring until the sausage is fully cooked. Add the
raw spinach and toss the mixture several times, for approximately 30
seconds. Add the salt, pepper, garlic and the wine. Mix together to
combine and set aside to cool.
Place the rotisserie chicken in a pan. Using your fingers, pull the meat
from the bones, shredding the meat as you go, keeping an eye out for
any bones. Add the shredded chicken to the sausage mixture to cool.
Next, place the pasta tubes in boiling, salted water and simmer for 6–7
minutes. Do not fully cook the pasta—the cannelloni will be baked for
40 minutes yet. Overcooking the pasta will make them fall apart. When
the pasta is done, transfer to an ice bath to cool, then strain.
In a large bowl, mix together the sausage-chicken mixture, eggs, and
the ricotta, mozzarella, and Romano cheeses. Transfer the filling to a
pastry bag that has an opening the size of a quarter and begin piping
the filling into the tubes. As the tubes are filled, place them in a pan
that is lined with DelGrosso Garlic and Cheese Sauce, approximately
1" deep. The sauce does not need to be hot. Cover and bake in a
preheated 400˚F oven for 40 minutes.
WINE PAIRING The Vineyard at Hershey Merlot

WEIS DAY

31

JUNIPER-CRUSTED PA VENISON LOIN
WITH MUSHROOM DUXELLE,
BRUSSELS SPROUTS, HUCKLEBERRY
SAUCE AND A BROWN BUTTER
POTATO FOAM
presented by Jason Clark
Chef De Cuisine
Mountain View Terrace and Skybox Sports Bar
Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course
Grantville, PA
Yield: 4 servings

JUNIPER CRUSTED PA VENISON LOIN
6 Tbsp. juniper berries
1 cup kosher salt
1 PA venison loin, boneless, about
1 1/2-2 lbs., cut in half crosswise

6 thyme sprigs
8 Tbsp. butter
2 Tbsp. canola oil

To make the juniper salt, place the juniper berries in a spice grinder
or coffee grinder and blend until coarse ground. Combine with the
salt. Season the venison loin lightly with a few teaspoons of the juniper
salt. Place 2 thyme sprigs and 4 tablespoons of butter on each loin half.
Place the venison into individual food saver bags or freezer bags. Cook
the venison in a water bath maintained at 145˚F by an immersion
circulator or temperature controlled pot of water for 25 minutes.
Remove from the water and allow to rest for 10 minutes in the bag.
Heat a large sauté pan with the canola oil over high heat. Remove the
venison from the bags and pat dry with paper towels. Transfer to the
pan and quickly sear on all sides, about 1 minute total. Add the thyme
and baste it with the butter that was in the bag for about 30 seconds.
Hold for plating.

MUSHROOM DUXELLE
1 cup PA crimini mushrooms,
1/8" dice
1 cup diced applewood bacon

1 tsp. raspberry vinegar
1 cup yellow onion, 1/8” dice
½ tsp. salt

To clean the crimini mushrooms, rinse them under cold running water,
being sure to remove any dirt. Allow them to dry on paper towels. In
a small sauté pan over low heat, render the bacon until it begins to
caramelize, about 10 minutes. Add the raspberry vinegar and cook for
32

PA PREFERRED™ CULINARY CONNECTION 2018

1 minute. Add the onion and sweat until soft and translucent, about
3 minutes. Add the mushrooms and sweat until tender, another 4
minutes. Season with the salt.

BRUSSELS SPROUTS
16 Brussels sprouts, halved
2 Tbsp. chicken stock
2 Tbsp. butter

2 thyme sprigs, chopped
Kosher salt to taste

Peel off the outer leaves from the Brussels sprouts. Bring a pot of salted
water to a boil. Add the Brussels sprouts and cook for 3–4 minutes.
Transfer to a bowl of ice water and drain once cold. Heat a medium
sauté pan over medium heat. Add the chicken stock and Brussels
sprouts and warm through, about 2 minutes. Add the butter and thyme
and toss to glaze. Season with salt to taste.

HUCKLEBERRY SAUCE
30 juniper berries
10 allspice berries
2 cloves
1 tsp. black peppercorns
2 cups PA red wine
2 cups huckleberries, divided
3 cups chicken stock

3 cups veal stock or demi glace
8 thyme sprigs, chopped
2 bay leaves
2 tsp. Dijon mustard
2 tsp. salt
½ oz. 72% bittersweet chocolate

In a sauté pan over medium heat, toast the juniper, allspice, cloves,
and pepper for 2 minutes, until fragrant. Add the red wine and
reduce until the pan is almost dry. Add 1 cup of huckleberries and
crush into pieces. Transfer the mixture to a medium saucepan and
add the chicken stock, veal stock, thyme, and bay leaves. Simmer and
reduce until the sauce coasts the back of the spoon. Finish with the
chocolate, salt, and mustard. Strain the sauce through a chinois. Add
the remaining cup of huckleberries.

BROWN BUTTER POTATO FOAM
1 lb. PA russet potatoes, peeled
1 Tbsp. plus 1 tsp. salt
3 cups heavy cream

1 Tbsp. brown butter
2 nitrogen cartridges

Place the potatoes and 1 tablespoon of the salt in a medium saucepan
and cover with cold water. Bring to a simmer over medium-low heat
and cook until tender, 30–35 minutes. In the meantime, reduce the
cream in a small saucepan over medium heat until 2 cups remain.
Drain the cooked potatoes and transfer to a blender. Puree the hot,
reduced cream and brown butter with the potatoes. Blend on high for
WEIS DAY

33

2 minutes and season with the remaining 1 teaspoon of salt. Strain
through a chinois and transfer the potatoes to a whipped cream
canister. Charge with the nitrogen cartridges and hold in a water bath
maintained at 145˚F by an immersion circulator until ready to serve.

FINAL PRESENTATION
Place your potato foam on the bottom of the plate, in the center.
Next, place your mushroom duxelle in the center of the potato foam.
Place your venison loin down on the center of the potato foam and
mushrooms. Then, spread some of the Brussels sprouts around the
venison. Finish with the huckleberry sauce around all the components
and serve.
WINE PAIRING Brookmere Winery & Vineyard Inn Chambourcin

CHICKEN SCALLOPINI WITH
GRILLED PORTABELLA “WELLINGTON”
presented by Jim Woltman
Executive Chef
The Mill in Hershey
Hershey, PA
Yield: 2 servings

CHICKEN SCALLOPINI
2, 6 oz. PA chicken breasts, boneless, skinless, pounded thin
½ cup all-purpose flour
½ cup blended oil

Heat the oil in a heavy bottom pan over high heat. Lightly dredge the
chicken breasts in flour and sear them in the oil until a deep brown
color is achieved. Carefully flip them over and finish cooking the
breasts completely. Remove the chicken from the pan and allow to rest.

PAN SAUCE
¼ cup shallots, minced
¼ cup PA white wine
½ cup chicken stock

1 cup heavy cream
Red pepper flakes, to taste
Salt and pepper, to taste

After removing the chicken from the oil, carefully pour the oil off and
place the pan back on the stove over medium heat. Add the shallots
and cook until slightly translucent. Add the white wine to deglaze the
pan. Add the remaining ingredients and allow to simmer until the
34

PA PREFERRED™ CULINARY CONNECTION 2018

desired consistency is achieved. Serve over the Chicken Scallopini and
pair with the Grilled Portabella “Wellington,” recipe to follow.

GRILLED PORTABELLA “WELLINGTON”
4 large PA portabella mushrooms
4 cups PA assorted mushrooms,
sautéed
Olive oil, as needed
1 garlic clove, minced
1 oz. shallots, minced
1/8 cup ricotta cheese

¼ cup blanched fresh spinach
Salt and pepper, to taste
8 large spinach leaves
1 egg yolk, beaten
Pinch cayenne pepper
1 sheet puff pastry

Remove the stems from the portabella mushrooms. Grill the mushroom
caps until they begin to soften. Season with salt and pepper and
drizzle lightly with olive oil. Remove from the grill and cool. Cut the
4 mushroom caps to 2 ½" round in diameter. Place the trimmings
from the cut portabella into the food processor and pulse until finely
chopped. Add the sautéed mushrooms and finely chop. In a sauté
pan, combine a tablespoon of olive oil, the minced garlic and shallots.
Cook until the shallots turn translucent. Add the ground mushroom
mix and cook for 15 minutes. Remove from the heat and cool. Fold in
the blanched spinach and ricotta cheese; season with salt and pepper.
Lay the cut portabellas on a work surface and place the mushroom mix
atop each mushroom, formed into the size of a tennis ball. Layer each
mushroom with the fresh spinach leaves. Lay out a sheet of puff pastry
and cut it into 6 portions. Cut each portion into thin strips. Combine
the egg yolk and cayenne in a small bowl and brush the puff pastry
strips. Pull the lattice cut dough apart and lay over top of the spinach
mushroom. Cut the excess dough off, folding any edges remaining
under the mushroom bottom. Bake in a 375˚F oven for 15–20 minutes.
WINE PAIRING Courtyards Wineries Beach Glass White

WEIS DAY

35

LAMB PAPRIKA
presented by John & Sukey Jamison
Owners
Jamison Farm
Latrobe, PA
Yield: 4 servings
2 large onions, sliced
2 Tbsp. olive oil
1 tsp. sugar
½ tsp. salt
½ tsp. pepper
½ tsp. basil

1 Tbsp. paprika
1 lb. cubed Jamison Farm lamb stew
meat
2 bay leaves
¾ cup sour cream
1 lb. cooked pasta or rice

Sauté the onions in olive oil for 5–10 minutes, until the onions are
tender, but not browned. Add the sugar, salt, pepper, basil and paprika,
stirring until dissolved. Add the lamb and bay leaves. Cover the pan,
bringing the ingredients to a light simmer and cook for about 30–35
minutes. This can be made ahead to this point. When ready to serve,
add the sour cream and reheat slowly if needed. Adjust the seasoning
with salt and pepper to taste. Serve with cooked pasta or rice.
WINE PAIRING Happy Valley Vineyards & Winery Three Sisters

36

PA PREFERRED™ CULINARY CONNECTION 2018

TU E S DAY, JAN UARY 9, 201 8

POTATO DAY

DI ETI T I AN T I P
One medium, skin-on potato contains 110 calories and is an
excellent source of fiber and potassium. Potatoes also supply
over 15 other vitamins and minerals, including iron and vitamin C.
Store unwashed potatoes in a cool, dry and dark place.
If sprouts appear, simply remove them before cooking.

POTATO GNOCCHI WITH A CRIMINI
MUSHROOM CREAM SAUCE
presented by Deidre Bloch
Owner and Chef
ScottDee’s Catering
Hegins, PA
Yield: 2–4 servings

POTATO GNOCCHI
1 lb. PA russet potatoes
¾ cup flour, plus more for kneading
and rolling

½ tsp. salt
1 egg, lightly beaten

Put the unpeeled potatoes in a large pot and fill with enough cold
water to cover the potatoes by at least 2". Bring to a simmer over
medium-high heat. Reduce the heat to medium and partially cover
the pot. Simmer the potatoes until they are completely tender and
easily pierced with a skewer, about 30–35 minutes. Drain and let cool
just enough so you can handle them. Peel the potatoes, cut in half
crosswise, and pass them through a ricer into a large bowl. Let cool
until almost at room temperature, at least 20 minutes.
Lightly flour a work surface. In a small bowl, mix the flour and salt
together. Add the egg to the potatoes, then add the flour mixture. Mix
together with your hands until the flour is moistened and the dough
starts to clump together; the dough will still be a bit crumbly at this
point. Gather the dough together and press it against the bottom of
the bowl until you have a uniform mass. Transfer it to the floured
surface.
Knead gently until the flour is fully incorporated and the dough is
soft, smooth, and a little sticky, about 30 seconds to 1 minute. Don’t
over mix it, or the gnocchi will be tough; the dough should feel
very delicate. Move the dough to one side, making sure the surface
underneath of it is well floured. Cover it with a clean kitchen towel.
With the palms of both hands, roll a dough piece on a floured surface
into a rope about ¾" in diameter. With a sharp knife or bench knife,
cut the rope crosswise every ¾" to make ¾" square gnocchi. Arrange
the gnocchi in a single layer on parchment-lined baking sheets,
making sure they don’t touch. Repeat until you run out of dough,
flouring the work surface as needed. When all the gnocchi have been
cut and spread out on the baking sheets, sprinkle them with a little
more flour.
38

PA PREFERRED™ CULINARY CONNECTION 2018

Bring a pot of salted water to boil. Drop the gnocchi in the boiling
water and cook until they float, about 5 minutes. Drain and serve with
the Crimini Mushroom Cream Sauce, recipe to follow.

CRIMINI MUSHROOM CREAM SAUCE
2 Tbsp. olive oil
1 large shallot, chopped fine
1 large garlic clove, chopped fine
3–4 fresh thyme stems
2 Tbsp. butter

2 lbs. PA crimini mushrooms,
cut in half
¾ cup chicken stock
1 cup heavy cream
Salt and fresh ground pepper,
to taste

Put the olive oil in a hot pan over medium heat. Add the garlic and
shallots and sauté until softened but not brown. Add the butter and
fresh thyme. Once the butter is melted, add the mushrooms. Stir and
cook until the mushrooms start to brown, about 4 minutes. Add the
chicken stock and cook for 2–3 minutes. Add the cream and simmer
on low until reduced and thickened. Remove the thyme stems and
season to taste with salt and pepper. Serve over the cooked gnocchi.
WINE PAIRING Cassel Vineyards of Hershey Chardonnay

MAPLE SWEET POTATO MASH
PAIRED WITH BRAISED SHORT RIBS
presented by Ben Beaver
Executive Chef
Café 1500
Harrisburg, PA
Yield: 6–8 servings

MAPLE SWEET POTATO MASH
3 lbs. PA sweet potatoes
1 lb. PA gold potatoes
6 Tbsp. salted butter
½ cup PA maple syrup

1 cup heavy cream
¼ tsp. cinnamon
1/8 tsp. clove
2 Tbsp. brown sugar

Peel and cut the potatoes into large bite-size pieces. Boil the sweet
and gold potatoes separately in lightly salted water, as they cook at
different rates. Cook until tender and strain. While the potatoes are
cooking, add all the other ingredients in a small sauce pan and heat
until the sugar is melted. Using a food mill, puree the potatoes and add
enough of the liquid to reach the desired thickness. Pair with Braised
Short Ribs, recipe to follow.
POTATO DAY

39

BRAISED SHORT RIBS
10 lbs. short ribs
Salt and pepper as needed
2 Tbsp. oil, as needed
2 large carrots, medium dice
1 celery stalk, medium dice
2 medium yellow onions,
medium dice

3 garlic cloves, minced
3 thyme sprigs
½ cup tomato paste
2 cups PA red wine
2 rosemary sprigs
Beef broth, as needed

Preheat an oven to 325˚F. Season the short ribs with salt and pepper.
Heat a small amount of oil in a large pot and sear the ribs on both sides
until caramelized. Remove from the pot and set aside. Add the celery,
onions, carrots, and garlic into the same pot and caramelize. Add the
tomato paste and cook for 2 minutes on low heat. Add the red wine
to deglaze the pan, then add the short ribs back into the pot. Add the
rosemary sprigs and enough broth to cover the short ribs half way up
the meat. Cover and braise in the oven for 5 hours, until tender. Allow
to cool and remove the short ribs. Strain the liquid and reduce to the
desired consistency for a sauce to top the short ribs.
WINE PAIRING Happy Valley Vineyards & Winery Three Sisters

PULLED PORK POUTINE
presented by Robert Dacko
Food Service Specialist
Weis Markets, Inc.
Sunbury, PA
Yield: 4 servings

FRENCH FRIES
1 ½ lbs. PA potatoes, washed
Vegetable oil, as needed for frying

Preheat a fryer to 325˚F or heat oil in a saucepan. Cut the potatoes on
a ¼" setting on a mandolin, fry cutter, or cut by hand. Rinse under cold
running water until the water is clear and all visible starch is removed.
Remove the potatoes from the water and drain. Lower into the fryer
oil. Cook until the fries are cooked through, but have no browning.
Drain the excess oil from the fries. Transfer to a tray and cool in the
refrigerator. Reserve until needed.

40

PA PREFERRED™ CULINARY CONNECTION 2018

PULLED PORK
4 oz. onion, cut in ½" cross sections
Salt and pepper, as needed
2 lbs. boneless pork shoulder
3 oz. Troegs Java Head Stout	
1 quart pork stock or chicken stock

1 cup ketchup		
¼ cup brown sugar 		
2 oz. Worcestershire sauce		
¼ cup Dijon mustard

Preheat an oven to 350˚F. Heavily char the onions on a grill, or in a
dry sauté pan on the stove top, while preparing the rest of the dish.
Season the pork with salt and pepper. Sear on a high heat in a shallow
oven-safe pot; brown evenly on all sides. Add the beer and stock to the
pan. Add the charred onion and whisk in the ketchup, brown sugar,
Worcestershire, and mustard. Bring to a simmer, then cover and cook
in the oven until tender, about 2 hours. Remove from the oven and
cool in the braising liquid until the pork can be handled. Coarsely
shred the pork and reserve. Puree the onion with the braising liquid
and reserve for the gravy.

GRAVY
2 oz. unsalted butter	
2 oz. all-purpose flour 		

24 oz. braising liquid from above
Salt and pepper, as needed

In a new sauce pot, melt the butter and incorporate the flour, making a
roux. Cook the roux for 3–4 minutes until reaching a dark brown color.
Add the braising liquid and bring to a simmer. Cook for 10–15 minutes
to thicken the gravy. Season as needed.

PLATING
1 lb. french fries, blanched
Salt, to taste			
6 oz. pulled pork, coarsely shredded	

6 oz. cheddar cheese curds	
8 oz. poutine gravy, heated

Preheat a deep fryer to 375˚F, and an oven to 425˚F. Lower the fries
into the deep fryer and cook until crispy. Allow the excess oil to drain
from the fries. Transfer to a mixing bowl and season with salt. In a
separate bowl, mix ¾ of the pulled pork and ¾ cheese curds. Toss to
evenly distribute the pork and curds. Transfer to an oven safe casserole
dish and top with the remaining pulled pork and curds. Place in the
preheated oven to melt the curds. Remove and ladle the gravy over top.
WINE PAIRING KingView Mead Sticky Peach Mead

POTATO DAY

41

POTATO LEEK SOUP
WITH TRUFFLE OIL
TATER TOTS
presented by John Reis, CFBE
Corporate Executive Chef
The Hilton Harrisburg
Harrisburg, PA
Yield: 6 servings

POTATO LEEK SOUP WITH TRUFFLE OIL
1 ½ lb. leeks
3 Tbsp. unsalted butter
1 tsp. salt
2 garlic cloves, minced
1 lb. PA gold potatoes, peeled and
diced

3 cups chicken broth
1 cup heavy cream
Salt and pepper, to taste
White truffle oil, optional for
topping
Fried leeks, for garnish

Cut the root and dark green part off of the leek, leaving the white part
and a little bit of the lighter green part. Cut the leeks in half and rinse
well. Cut them in half again, down the middle, and chop. In a large pot,
melt the butter over medium heat. Once melted, add the leeks and salt
and cook for 5 minutes, stirring constantly. In the last thirty seconds,
add in the minced garlic. Lower the heat to medium low and cook
the leeks for 25 minutes, stirring occasionally. Add the potatoes and
the chicken broth to the pot. Bring to a boil over medium high heat.
Reduce the heat to low, cover, and simmer for about 25 minutes, until
the potatoes are tender. Remove from the heat and puree the mixture
using an immersion blender, or transfer the mixture to your stand
blender. Once the mixture is smooth, add in the heavy cream. Season
to taste with salt and pepper. Drizzle the truffle oil over the soup and
garnish with fried leeks to serve.

TATER TOTS
Yield: 4–5 dozen
7 medium PA potatoes, peeled,
cooked, hot
1 PA potato, peeled, uncooked
2 Tbsp. flour
2 large eggs
1 dash pepper

42

1 tsp. seasoning salt
2 tsp. granulated garlic
3 Tbsp. chopped parsley
6 Tbsp. finely minced onions
Canola oil or vegetable oil
Ketchup for serving

PA PREFERRED™ CULINARY CONNECTION 2018

Finely shred the hot potatoes, or use a ricer. Shred the uncooked
potato and add to the cooked potatoes. Stir in the flour, eggs, salt,
pepper, garlic, parsley, and onions, being careful not to mash the
potatoes too much. Heat ½" of oil in a heavy pan. Form the potato
mixture into small barrels and drop in the oil; fry until slightly golden.
Drain on paper towels, and serve with ketchup.
WINE PAIRING Cassel Vineyards of Hershey Chardonnay

POTATO PANCAKES WITH
PA SMOKED TROUT ‘BRANDADE’
AND A LEMON-CAPER GREMOLATA
presented by Claire Dacko
Culinary Arts Instructor
Dauphin County Technical School
Harrisburg, PA
Yield: 4 servings

BRANDADE
1 large PA russet potato, rinsed and
scrubbed
½ cup olive oil, plus 1 tsp.
2 garlic cloves
8 oz. Limestone Springs
Pennsylvania smoked trout, skin
and bones removed

¾ cup whole milk
2 Tbsp. lemon juice
½ tsp. smoked paprika
Kosher salt and freshly ground
black pepper, to taste

Preheat an oven to 400˚F. Rub the potato with 1 teaspoon of olive
oil and bake until tender, 50–60 minutes. Let cool slightly, then peel.
Using a fork or potato ricer, mash the potato until nearly smooth.
In a medium saucepan, bring the garlic, trout, and milk to a simmer.
Remove from the heat and let sit 10 minutes at room temperature.
Using a slotted spoon, transfer half of the trout to a plate and flake.
Place the garlic, milk, and remaining trout in a food processor along
with the lemon juice, paprika, and the remaining ½ cup of olive oil.
Process until smooth. Transfer to a large bowl and gently fold in the
mashed potato and flaked trout. Season to taste with salt and pepper.
Transfer the trout mixture to a piping bag fitted with a large star tip.
Hold at room temperature until needed.
Note: this can be made one day ahead. Cover and refrigerate until needed.
Bring the brandade to room temperature before piping.
POTATO DAY

43

POTATO PANCAKES
1 large PA russet potato,
scrubbed clean
½ medium onion
1 large egg
¼ cup all-purpose flour

1 tsp. kosher salt, plus more for
seasoning after frying
½ tsp. baking powder
¼ tsp. freshly ground black pepper
Canola oil or other vegetable oil, for
frying

Using a food processor with a coarse grating disc, or the large holes
on a box grater, grate the potatoes and onion. Transfer the mixture
to a clean dishtowel; squeeze and wring out as much of the liquid as
possible. Working quickly, transfer the mixture to a large bowl. Add
the eggs, flour, salt, baking powder and pepper, and mix until the flour
is absorbed. In a heavy-bottomed sauté pan over medium-high heat,
add about ¼" of the oil. Once the oil is hot, a drop of batter placed in
the pan should sizzle. Use a heaping tablespoon to drop the batter into
the hot pan, cooking in batches. Use a spatula to flatten and shape
the drops into discs. When the edges of the pancakes are brown and
crispy, about 5 minutes, flip. Cook until the second side is brown and
crispy, about another 5 minutes. Transfer the pancakes to a paper
towel-lined plate to drain and sprinkle with salt while still warm.
Repeat with the remaining batter.

GREMOLATA
1 head of garlic
2 Tbsp. capers, drained
¼ cup Italian flat-leaf parsley, finely
chopped

Zest and juice of 1 lemon
2 Tbsp. extra-virgin olive oil, plus
extra for drizzling
Salt and pepper, to taste

Preheat an oven to 375˚F. Slice off a thin part of the top of the garlic
head to expose some of the cloves inside. Place the head on a small
piece of foil and drizzle with olive oil. Sprinkle the garlic with salt, and
wrap in the foil. Roast until cloves are lightly browned and soft, about
30 minutes. Remove the garlic from the oven, open the packet and cool
to room temperature.
Add the capers, parsley, 3 cloves of roasted garlic (reserve remaining
garlic for another use), lemon zest, lemon juice, and olive oil to the
bowl of a food processor. Pulse until the mixture is combined but still
a bit chunky in texture. Season to taste with salt and pepper.

44

PA PREFERRED™ CULINARY CONNECTION 2018

PLATING
Potato Pancakes, warm
Brandade, prepared

2 Tbsp. Parmesan cheese,
finely grated
Gremolata, prepared

Preheat a broiler to high heat. Arrange the potato pancakes in a single
layer on a lined sheet tray. Pipe a swirl of the brandade onto each
potato pancake and sprinkle with grated Parmesan. Broil the pancakes
until the brandade is golden brown, puffy and heated through, about
3–4 minutes. Transfer the pancakes to a platter and top with the
Gremolata. Serve immediately.
WINE PAIRING Spring Gate Vineyard Riesling

POTATO DAY

45

First we saved.

T H E N , W E S AV O R E D .
Feed your culinary ambition and save up to $8,546. Buy an eligible Thermador
cooking package and select your complimentary dishwasher. Add refrigeration
and choose another gift, including newly added under counter refrigeration.
Embrace your opportunity to cook without limits.

Choose your gift at
T H E RMADOR. COM / O N E-TWO -FR EE
©2017 BSH HOME APPLIANCES CORPORATION. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. 17-THD-0706

WE D NE SDAY, JAN UARY 1 0, 201 8

BEEF & VEAL DAY

DI ETI T I AN T I P
A three-ounce serving of lean beef supplies 10 essential nutrients,
including high-quality protein, zinc and iron. When shopping for lean
cuts of beef, look for “loin” or “round” in the name as well as those
with the least amount of visible fat (marbling).

THE MEATBALL SHOWDOWN
PRESENTED BY THE PA BEEF COUNCIL

MEATBALL EGG ROLL
presented by Barry Crumlich
Executive Chef
The Pennsylvania Governor’s Residence
Harrisburg, PA
Yield: 30 egg rolls
1 ½ lbs. PA ground beef
½ lb. PA ground veal	
1 lb. portabella mushrooms	
2 Tbsp. ginger paste
1 Tbsp. garlic chili paste
4 garlic cloves, minced
½ cup diced fresh chives
2 egg yolks
1 cup panko bread crumbs	
2 Tbsp. sesame oil

4 garlic cloves, minced	
2 Tbsp. chili paste	
2 Tbsp. ginger paste	
20 oz. hoisin sauce
2 Tbsp. PA raw honey	
2 Tbsp. rice wine vinegar	
½ cup mirin
30 egg roll wrappers	
Water, as needed
Vegetable oil, as needed for frying

Clean the gills from the portabella caps. Place in a bowl of a food
processor and blend to small pieces. Transfer to a large mixing bowl
and add the beef, veal, ginger, chili paste, garlic, chives, yolks, and
panko. Mix the ingredients just enough to incorporate. Scoop ¾-ounce
meatballs, using a #100 ice cream scoop. Slightly roll the meatballs
to shape, but don’t over-roll and make a denser meatball. Place the
meatballs onto a baking tray lined with parchment paper. Bake in a
375˚F oven for 8–10 minutes.
Preheat a medium saucepan on medium-high heat. Place the sesame oil
in the pan and sauté the garlic for 1 minute. Lower the heat to medium
and add the chili paste, ginger paste, hoisin, honey, vinegar, and mirin.
Simmer the glaze for five minutes. Place the meatballs into a large
mixing bowl and pour the glaze over, lightly tossing to evenly coat.
Working in small batches, place several egg roll wrappers onto a clean
surface with one of the corners facing towards you. Brush the edges of
the wrapper with water. Place three meatballs in a line in the center of
the wrapper. Fold the two outside corners inward, just to where the tips
meet. Fold the bottom corner upward to cover the meatballs. Tightly
roll the rest of the way, making sure all the edges are sealed. Fry the egg
rolls in a deep fryer until golden brown or carefully fry on the stove top
in 2" of hot oil.

48

PA PREFERRED™ CULINARY CONNECTION 2018

THE MEATBALL SHOWDOWN
PRESENTED BY THE PA BEEF COUNCIL

GRILLED MOROCCAN MEATBALL
presented by Wes Trout
Sales Manager and Culinary Trainer
BOSCH and Thermador Appliances
Yield: about 2 ½ dozen meatballs
1 lb. ground PA beef chuck
1 lb. ground PA veal shoulder
¼ cup finely diced onion
3 Tbsp. chopped cilantro
3 Tbsp. chopped parsley
1 Tbsp. smoked paprika

1 Tbsp. cumin
1 tsp. minced garlic
½ tsp. cinnamon
¼ tsp. cayenne
¼ tsp. sumac
Salt and pepper, to taste

Mix all the ingredients together in a large bowl. Roll the mixture
into 1 ½" meatballs. Season liberally with salt and pepper. Grill the
meatballs for 4–5 minutes and place on a rack on a sheet tray. Finish
in the oven until the internal temperature of the meatballs is 170˚F.
Allow to rest at least 5 minutes.

BEEF & VEAL DAY

49

ITALIAN WINTER ROULADE
WITH ROASTED SWEET POTATOES
AND CREAMED KALE
presented by Jim Switzenberg
Director of Operations
John Wright Restaurant
Wrightsville, PA
Yield: 4 servings

ITALIAN WINTER ROULADE
1 cup sun-dried tomatoes, diced
½ cup small diced onion
1 Tbsp. minced garlic
2 Tbsp. butter
¼ cup black olives, chopped
2 tsp. minced sage
¾ cup crumbled Breezy Meadows
raw goat cheese feta

4 PA veal cutlets, 3 oz. each,
pounded thin
Salt and pepper, as needed
4 thin slices smoked ham
1 cup flour
1 egg
1 Tbsp. milk
1 cup breadcrumbs
½ cup olive oil

Rehydrate the sun-dried tomatoes in hot water for 20 minutes. Sauté
the onions and garlic in butter until soft. Add the olives, sun-dried
tomatoes, and sage and cook for 2 minutes. Pull off the heat and add
the feta. Lay out the thinly pounded veal cutlets and season with salt
and pepper. Cover each with a thin layer of the tomato mixture and roll
into a roulade. Wrap each roulade with a slice of ham and chill for at
least 1 hour. Bread each ham roll by coating in flour, the egg and milk
mixture, then the bread crumbs. Chill until ready to cook. Heat the
olive oil in a sauté pan, and brown the roulades on all sides. Transfer
to a baking tray and finish in the oven until reaching an internal
temperature of 145˚F.

ROASTED SWEET POTATOES
1  ½ lb. sweet potatoes,
peeled and diced
¼ cup olive oil

1 Tbsp. minced rosemary
1 Tbsp. minced sage
Salt and pepper, to taste

Toss all the ingredients together and transfer to a baking tray. Roast in
a 400˚F oven until tender.

50

PA PREFERRED™ CULINARY CONNECTION 2018

CREAMED KALE
2 Tbsp. olive oil
¼ cup minced onions
2 Tbsp. minced garlic
4 cups finely shaved kale

½ cup heavy cream
¼ cup grated Parmesan cheese
Salt and pepper, to taste

In a sauce pan, heat the oil and sweat the onions and garlic until soft.
Add the kale and cook until soft, about 5 minutes. Add the cream and
reduce until almost dry. Add the cheese and serve.

FINISHING
Slice each roulade twice, on a bias. On each plate, place the sweet
potatoes at the 12 o’clock position, with the creamed kale in front.
Place the sliced roulade pieces on top of the kale and serve.
WINE PAIRING Allegro Winery Riesling

CAJUN DUSTED BEEF TENDERLOIN
WITH A CARAMEL MUSHROOM
WHISKEY SAUCE
presented by Doug Krick
Executive Chef
Dodge City Steakhouse
Harrisburg, PA
Yield: 4 servings

CAJUN DUSTED TENDERLOIN
2 PA beef shoulder tenderloins,
approximately 1 lb. each
1 Tbsp. blended oil

2 Tbsp. Cajun seasoning
1 pinch salt and pepper

Trim the tenderloins, removing any excess fat. Rub them with the oil
and season with the salt, pepper, and Cajun seasoning. Cook on a high
temperature grill or grill pan for approximately 3 minutes on each side.
Remove the steaks from the grill or pan and let rest for 10–12 minutes.
Place them back on the grill, heating each side for 1 minute. Slice and
serve with the Caramel Mushroom Whiskey Sauce, recipe to follow.

BEEF & VEAL DAY

51

CARAMEL MUSHROOM WHISKEY SAUCE
8 oz. sliced mushrooms
2 Tbsp. butter
½ tsp. granulated garlic
Pinch salt and pepper

1 cup brown sugar
1 oz. whiskey
2 oz. heavy cream

Place the mushrooms, butter, garlic, salt, and pepper in a sauté pan and
sauté over medium-high heat until the mushrooms are tender. Turn off
the heat and add the brown sugar and whiskey; then flambé. Return to
a medium heat to melt the brown sugar. Once melted, add the heavy
cream and simmer for 15 minutes until the sauce thickens. Pour over
the sliced tenderloin.
WINE PAIRING Reid’s Orchard & Winery Merlot

BRAISED PA SHORT RIBS WITH
A ROASTED BEET RISOTTO AND
BURGUNDY HONEY REDUCTION
presented by Travis Mumma
Executive Chef
Café Fresco
Harrisburg, PA
Yield: 2 servings

BRAISED SHORT RIBS
10 oz. PA boneless short rib
¼ cup chopped celery
¼ cup chopped carrot
¼ cup chopped yellow onion
½ cup chopped tomato

1 Tbsp. fresh thyme leaves
3 garlic cloves
1 quart beef stock
½ cup PA burgundy wine

Sear the short rib in a preheated pan. Transfer to an oven-safe dish or
a slow cooker. Top the ribs with all the ingredients and braise, covered,
at 350˚F for 4 hours. Remove from the oven, uncover, and simmer to
reduce the broth by one third, while leaving the beef in the liquid.
To serve, take the hot short rib out of the braising liquid. Cover with
the glaze, recipe to follow. Put under a broiler or in a high temperature
oven until the sauce is bubbly and reduced.

52

PA PREFERRED™ CULINARY CONNECTION 2018

GLAZE
1 Tbsp. brown sugar
1 tsp. fried garlic
1 ½ Tbsp. minced ginger
¾ cup hoisin sauce

1 Tbsp. Chinese rice wine (Michui)
¼ cup oyster sauce
2 Tbsp. chopped scallions
¼ Tbsp. crushed red pepper

Simply whisk the ingredients together. Set aside.

ROASTED BEET PUREE
8 oz. beets, peeled, small dice
½ tsp. minced ginger
¼ tsp. chopped garlic

1 Tbsp. olive oil
Pinch of salt and pepper

Toss everything together and roast, covered, at 400˚F for
approximately 45 minutes or until fork tender. Roast uncovered for an
additional 10–12 minutes. Puree 2/3 of the beets and combine back with
the unpureed ones. Set aside.

ROASTED BEET RISOTTO
1 oz. salted butter
¼ cup minced yellow onion
¾ Tbsp. chopped garlic
½ lb. arborio rice
1 ¼ quarts chicken broth

5 oz. shredded Parmesan cheese
1 Tbsp. heavy cream
Roasted beet puree, from above
Salt and pepper, to taste

Sweat the onion and garlic in the butter until translucent. Add the rice,
stirring constantly for 1 minute on medium-low heat. Increase the heat
to medium and add the chicken broth in 3 separate stages, allowing for
the liquid to mostly absorb in between. After the rice is al dente, and
the liquid is slightly thickened, stir in the Parmesan cheese and cream.
Add the roasted beet puree and stir for 1 minute. Season to taste with
salt and pepper.

BURGUNDY HONEY REDUCTION
2 cups PA burgundy wine
1 Tbsp. PA honey

On a very low heat, in a perfectly flat-bottomed saucepan, slowly
reduce the wine to 1/8 cup. While still warm, drizzle in the honey and
taste.

PLATING
Glazed short ribs
Roasted beet risotto
Burgundy honey reduction

BEEF & VEAL DAY

Gorgonzola, crumbled, for garnish
Thai basil, for garnish

53

Serve the short ribs over the roasted red beet risotto with a garnish
of fresh Thai basil, crumbled Gorgonzola and a burgundy honey
reduction.
WINE PAIRING Armstrong Valley Winery Cabernet Franc

VEAL SCHNITZEL APPLE COMPOTE
WITH POTATO LATKES AND
WARM CABBAGE AND BEET SLAW
presented by Robert Corle Jr., CEC, CCE
and Brian Peffley CEPC, CCE, AAC
Chef Instructors
and the Apprentices and Students from
Lebanon County Career and Technology Center
Lebanon, PA
Yield: 4 servings

VEAL SCHNITZEL
4 PA veal steaks, boneless
1/3 cup all-purpose flour
Pinch of salt and pepper
2 eggs

2 Tbsp. cold water
1 ½ cups breadcrumbs
Vegetable oil for frying or butter,
as needed

Place the veal between 2 sheets of plastic wrap. Using a meat mallet,
pound until 5mm (half a centimeter) thick. Combine the flour, salt and
pepper on a large plate. Lightly whisk the eggs and water in a shallow
bowl. Place the breadcrumbs on a plate. Lightly coat the veal in the
seasoned flour, shaking off the excess. Dip in the egg mixture, then the
breadcrumbs, pressing the crumbs on with fingertips to secure. Place
the schnitzels on a plate, cover and refrigerate for 30 minutes.
Preheat an oven to 350˚F, fan-forced. Line a large baking tray with
parchment paper. Pour the oil into a large frying pan until the base is
covered and heat over medium-high heat. Reduce the heat to medium
and cook 2 schnitzels at a time for 2–3 minutes on each side until
golden. Remove and drain on paper towels. Place in the oven on the
prepared tray to keep warm. Repeat with the remaining schnitzels.

54

PA PREFERRED™ CULINARY CONNECTION 2018

APPLE COMPOTE
2 PA Honeycrisp or McIntosh
apples, peeled, cored and
chopped
½ cup orange juice

1 Tbsp. lemon juice
¼ cup dark brown sugar
¼ tsp. nutmeg
½ tsp. salt

In a saucepot on medium-high heat, add the apples, orange juice,
lemon juice, brown sugar and nutmeg. Simmer over medium heat until
the apples are tender and the juices are thickened to a thin syrup,
about 10–12 minutes. Add the salt to season.

POTATO LATKES
2 cups peeled and shredded potatoes
1 Tbsp. grated onion
3 eggs, beaten
2 Tbsp. all-purpose flour

1 ½ tsp. salt
Potato starch, as needed
½ cup oil for frying

Place the potatoes in cheesecloth and wring, extracting as much
moisture as possible. In a medium bowl, stir the potatoes, onion,
eggs, flour and salt together. Add the potato starch as necessary; the
potatoes should stiffen up and be malleable. In a large heavy-bottomed
skillet over medium-high heat, heat the oil until hot. Place large
spoonfuls of the potato mixture into the hot oil, pressing down on
them to form ¼"–½" thick patties. Brown on one side; turn and brown
on the other side. Remove and let drain on paper towels. Reserve hot.

WARM CABBAGE AND BEET SLAW
½ head red cabbage, shredded
2 medium beets, peeled and julienne
½ medium red onion, julienne
2 cinnamon sticks

1 quart beet juice
2 Tbsp. honey
Salt and pepper, to taste

Add the beets, cabbage, onion, cinnamon sticks, beet juice and honey
into a roasting pan. Cover and place in a preheated 275˚F oven for one
hour. Season to taste with salt and pepper.

PLATING
Place a portion of the warm slaw in the center of a plate and shingle
2 or 3 potato cakes overtop. Place the Veal Schnitzel on the opposite
side of the shingled cakes for height, and garnish with the compote.
WINE PAIRING Naylor Wine Cellars Traminette

BEEF & VEAL DAY

55

THU R S DAY, JAN UARY 11 , 201 8

MILITARY
APPRECIATION
DAY
PRESENTED BY

DI ETI T I AN T I P
A diet rich in fruits and veggies as part of an overall healthy diet can
help to lower blood pressure, reduce the risk of diabetes, heart disease
and stroke, and promote a healthy digestive tract. Aim to eat at least
five cups of colorful produce each day, and remember whether it’s
fresh, frozen, canned, dried or 100% juice—all forms count.

CIDER RIESLING SALAD WITH
POACHED PEARS
APPLE FLATBREAD
APPLE NORMANDY
presented by Robert Corle Jr., CEC, CCE
and Brian Peffley CEPC, CCE, AAC
Chef Instructors
and the Apprentices and Students from
Lebanon County Career and Technology Center
Lebanon, PA
Yield: 6 servings

CIDER RIESLING SALAD WITH POACHED PEARS
Poached Pears
1 cup PA apple cider
1 cup PA Riesling
Cloves, to taste	
Cinnamon, to taste 	

½ cup honey
¼ cup brown sugar
3 PA red pears, peeled

Heat all the ingredients, but the pears, to a simmer on the stove,
stirring occasionally until the honey has melted. Add the pears and
simmer for 15–20 minutes, turning and checking to see if the pears are
tender. Remove the pears from the liquid and allow to cool. Reserve
the liquid.
Cider Riesling Dressing
½ cup poaching liquid
3 Tbsp. honey
1 Tbsp. mustard

½ shallot, minced
1¼ cup oil

Combine the poaching liquid, honey, mustard and shallot in a
bowl and mix to emulsify together. Stream in the oil slowly until
incorporated.
Assembly
4 oz. arugula
3 oz. goat cheese
3 Tbsp. candied walnuts

3 poached pears
Cider Riesling Dressing, as needed

Spoon a ring of vinaigrette on a plate. In a bowl, toss the salad
ingredients with enough vinaigrette to coat. Pile the salad in the
center of the plate and garnish with the sliced poached pears on top.
MILITARY APPRECIATION DAY

57

APPLE FLATBREAD
2 cups all-purpose flour, more as
needed
½ tsp. baking soda
½ tsp. baking powder
½ tsp. cumin seeds
½ tsp. sugar

1 cup milk
2 Tbsp. oil, divided
2 PA apples, sliced
Balsamic glaze, as needed
2 oz. crumbled blue cheese

Combine the flour, baking soda, baking powder, cumin seeds and
sugar together in a large bowl. Combine the milk and 1 tablespoon of
the oil in a small sauce pan. Heat over medium heat until warm, about
3–5 minutes. Stir into the flour mixture until small clumps form. Knead
the dough, adding more flour by the tablespoon if needed, until the
dough is soft and smooth. Rest for 3 minutes. Divide the dough into
4 equal pieces. Press each piece into a flat circle on a floured work
surface. Brush a large skillet with the remaining 1 tablespoon of oil
and heat over medium high heat. Cook the dough circles, one at a
time, until golden brown, about 3 minutes per side. Top with the sliced
apples, balsamic reduction, and blue cheese.

APPLE NORMANDY
Pastry
1 1/3 cups all-purpose flour
Pinch of salt
½ cup butter, softened

1 egg yolk
3 Tbsp. cold water, or as needed

In a medium bowl, combine the flour and salt. Add the remaining
ingredients and stir until the mixture forms large crumbs. If it is too
dry to press a handful together, stir in more water. Press the dough into
a ball, and wrap in plastic wrap. Flatten slightly, and refrigerate for at
least 30 minutes, or until firm. This part can be done up to three days
in advance.
Roll the pastry dough out to a 12" circle on a lightly floured surface.
Fold it loosely into quarters, and center the point in a 10" tart or pie
pan. Unfold the dough, and press into the bottom and up the sides.
Prick with a fork all over, and flute the edges. Return the pastry to the
refrigerator to chill until firm.

58

PA PREFERRED™ CULINARY CONNECTION 2018

Filling
1 cup heavy cream
2 eggs, beaten
2 egg yolks
¼ cup sugar

1 Tbsp. apple brandy
1 Tbsp. ground cinnamon
Pinch ground nutmeg

To make the filling, whisk the cream together with the eggs, yolks,
and sugar in a medium bowl until the eggs are broken down and the
mixture is smooth. Stir in the apple brandy and spices. Cover and set
aside in the refrigerator.
Finishing
4 medium PA Cortland or Gala apples
1 tsp. sugar for decoration, optional
3 Tbsp. apricot jelly, optional

Preheat the oven to 400˚F. Peel and core the apples; cut in half and
thinly slice. Arrange them decoratively in the pastry lined pan. Pour
the egg filling over the apples and bake for 20–30 minutes, until the
apples are tender and the custard is firm to the touch. Cool the tart on
a wire rack. A short time before serving, warm the apricot jelly. Add
some water if necessary to make it a liquid consistency. Brush onto
the tart for a nice shine or sprinkle with sugar and torch to create a
“brulée” crust top.
WINE PAIRING Blue Mountain Vineyards Riesling

SOUTHERN PORK AND PEACH
ONE-PAN DINNER
PEACH CLAFOUTIS
PEACH BELLINIS
presented by Wes Trout
Sales Manager and Culinary Trainer
BOSCH and Thermador Appliances
Yield: 6–8 servings

SOUTHERN PORK AND PEACH ONE PAN DINNER
6 PA peaches
Juice of 1 lemon
½ cup light brown sugar,
plus 1 Tbsp.

MILITARY APPRECIATION DAY

1 Tbsp. sea salt
1 Tbsp. fresh ground black pepper
1 tsp. ground ginger
2–3 lb. pork loin

59

Preheat an oven to 425˚F. Peel, pit and dice the peaches. Toss with
the ½ cup of brown sugar and lemon juice and set aside. Combine
the tablespoon of brown sugar and remaining spices in a small bowl.
Rinse the pork loin and pat dry. Coat all sides of the pork loin with the
dry rub.
Preheat a large cast iron skillet on medium high heat. Place the pork
loin, fat side down, and sear until brown on all four sides. Be patient
to allow for a nice even browning. Remove the skillet from the heat
and add the peaches on the sides of the pork loin. Place the pan
in the oven for about 45 minutes until the pork reaches an internal
temperature of 160˚F. Remove the pork from the pan to rest on a
cutting board. Stir the pan contents and place back in the oven for 10
minutes. Once the pork has rested, slice and place on top of the pan
mixture to serve.

PEACH CLAFOUTIS
2 Tbsp. butter
3 PA peaches
1 cup sour cream
1 cup whole milk
5 large eggs

2 tsp. vanilla paste
½ cup all-purpose flour
½ cup light brown sugar
Pinch salt

Preheat an oven to 350˚F. Butter a 12" cast iron skillet and dust with
sugar. Place all the remaining ingredients, except the peaches, in a
blender and blend until smooth. Pit and slice the peaches. Pour half
the batter in the skillet and add the peaches. Top with the remaining
batter, allowing the peaches to peek through. Bake in the oven for
about 60–70 minutes, until golden brown.

PEACH BELLINI
2 ripe PA peaches, pitted and diced
1 Tbsp. fresh lemon juice
1 tsp. sugar

1 bottle of your favorite
PA sparkling wine

Place the peaches, lemon juice and sugar in a food processer, process
until smooth. Press the mixture through a sieve and discard the solids.
Place 2 tablespoons of the puree into each champagne glass and top
with sparkling wine. Enjoy!
WINE PAIRING Shade Mountain Winery Three Witches Sparkling White
or Traminette

60

PA PREFERRED™ CULINARY CONNECTION 2018

APPLE ALMOND TART
WITH APRICOT GLAZE
SMOKED BACON AND COMTE
CHEESE TART WITH GOLDEN
DELICIOUS APPLES
presented by John Moeller
Former White House Chef and
author of Dining at the White House: From the President’s Table to Yours
www.DiningAtTheWhiteHouse.com
Yield: 8 servings

APPLE ALMOND TART WITH APRICOT GLAZE
Tart Dough
1 lb. all-purpose flour
½ tsp. salt
½ lb. unsalted butter, cold

1 oz. yolk
2 oz. lightly beaten eggs
2 oz. chilled water

Blend the butter, salt, and flour to a hazelnut size texture. Add the
water, egg, and yolk. Work this into a ball and chill for at least 30
minutes. Roll out to a ¼" thickness, to the dimensions for a ½ sheet
pan. Line the tray with parchment paper and transfer the dough to the
tray. Lightly dock the dough with a fork. Cover with another sheet of
parchment paper and weight down with baking beans. Bake the tart in
a 350˚F oven until golden brown.
Filling
8 oz. almond paste
2 oz. almond filling
4 Tbsp. unsalted butter, room
temperature

1 egg, room temperature
¼ cup sugar
1 Tbsp. vanilla extract

Blend the almond paste and filling until smooth. Add the butter, egg,
sugar, vanilla and blend until smooth. Leave at room temperature until
needed.
Assembly
6 PA Golden Delicious apples
4 oz. butter, melted
¼ cup sugar, for sprinkling

½ cup apricot glaze
Water, as needed

Preheat a convection oven to 400˚F. Peel the apples, cut in half, and
core. Slice each half into thin slices. Spread the almond filling across
MILITARY APPRECIATION DAY

61

the cooked tart shell, being careful not to crack the dough. Cascade
the apples down the tart in lanes to cover the sheet. Brush the melted
butter over the apples, then lightly sprinkle sugar across the top. Bake
until nicely caramelized on top; the sides can get dark, they can be
trimmed. Allow to cool. In a small saucepan, warm some apricot glaze
with a little water, if needed, over low heat. Brush the glaze over the
top of the apples. Allow to cool and cut into the desired size.

SMOKED BACON AND COMTE CHEESE TART WITH
GOLDEN DELICIOUS APPLES
Tart Dough, recipe from above
2 cups half and half
4 eggs
1 tsp. minced garlic
Salt and pepper, to taste
½ cup small dice bacon, sautéed
until still soft

1 Tbsp. melted butter
½ cup small diced PA golden
delicious apples, tossed in the
melted butter
1 Tbsp. chopped Italian parsley
1 cup grated Comte cheese

Prepare the tart dough following the recipe above. Roll out to ¼"
thickness and cut out 8 circles. Form into tart shells and dock with a
fork. Weight down with baking beans and bake in a 350˚F oven until
golden brown.
In a medium bowl, mix the eggs, half and half, garlic, salt and pepper.
Divide the cooked bacon in the small tart shells. Add the apple, then
the egg mixture. Sprinkle the parsley on top, then the Comte cheese.
Bake at 325˚F for 12–14 minutes, until set.
WINE PAIRING Allegro Winery Riesling

APPLE CRANBERRY MONKEY BREAD
WITH MAPLE ICE CREAM
presented by Cher D. Harris, CEPC
Executive Pastry Chef
The Hotel Hershey
Hershey, PA
Yield: 12 servings

APPLE CRANBERRY MONKEY BREAD
2 tsp. instant yeast
14 oz. bread flour
1 ½ tsp. salt

62

1 oz. canola oil
10 oz. cold water

PA PREFERRED™ CULINARY CONNECTION 2018

In a large bowl, mix the yeast with the flour, then add the salt and
combine. Slowly mix in the oil and water. Knead for 5–7 minutes by
hand or with the dough hook of a stand mixer, until the dough is
smooth, stretchy, and pliable. Lightly mist a large piece of parchment
or a baking sheet with baking spray. Lay the dough out on it and pat
into a roughly 2" thick rectangle. Use a knife or bench scraper to cut it
into 4 roughly equal pieces. Cut each of these into 12 lumps, for a total
of about 48 dough lumps about the size of your thumb. Sprinkle flour
over top of the dough pieces, cover with a towel, and set aside while
you prepare the monkey bread filling.

FILLING
4 oz. unsalted butter
2 tsp. vanilla
1 Tbsp. cinnamon
1 tsp. ginger
¼ tsp. salt
2 oz. golden raisins

2 oz. dried cranberries
1 large PA apple
1 orange, zested
4 oz. dark brown sugar
Flour, for dusting the dough

Prepare a muffin pan by lightly greasing the wells or lining with paper
muffin cups. To make the filling, melt the butter in a saucepan or in
the microwave. Stir in the vanilla, cinnamon, ginger, and salt and set
aside to cool completely. Roughly chop the raisins and cranberries and
place in a large bowl. Peel and core the apple, and grate into the bowl
with the dried fruit. Stir in the orange zest and brown sugar. Sprinkle
the dough pieces again lightly with flour, to help keep them from
sticking to each other, then toss them with the dried fruit, apples, and
brown sugar. Pour the completely cooled melted butter into the bowl
and stir to coat the pieces of dough. Quickly scoop up handfuls of the
dough and fruit mixture and place them in muffin cups (about 4 pieces
to each cup). If there is any leftover butter in the bowl, pour it evenly
over the monkey breads. Set aside in a warm place to rise for 1 hour.
Heat the oven to 350˚F and bake for 20–25 minutes or until browned
on top.

GLAZE
1 Tbsp. heavy cream
½ oz. PA honey

Juice of 1 orange, from above
4–6 oz. confectioner’s sugar

While the monkey breads are baking, make the glaze. Warm the cream
and honey in the microwave or in a small saucepan until the honey is
dissolved. Whisk together with the orange juice and powdered sugar
until it forms a thick, creamy glaze. Remove the monkey breads from
MILITARY APPRECIATION DAY

63

the oven and drizzle the glaze over the tops. Serve immediately with
the Maple Ice Cream, recipe to follow.

MAPLE ICE CREAM
6 egg yolks
8 oz. PA maple syrup
¼ tsp. sea salt

12 oz. whole milk
12 oz. heavy cream
1 tsp. vanilla extract

Whisk together the egg yolks, maple syrup and sea salt until fully
combined. Heat the milk and cream with the vanilla to a simmer.
Temper into the egg yolk mixture and cook over medium heat, stirring
constantly until the mixture begins to thicken but doesn’t come to
a boil. Pour through a strainer to remove any stray bits and chill the
custard in the refrigerator for at least 4 hours. Freeze the ice cream
according to the manufacturer’s instructions for a 2 quart machine.
The ice cream is done freezing when it stands up on a spoon. Remove
the ice cream from the machine and place the container in the freezer
for 4–6 hours to fully freeze it.
WINE PAIRING Allegheny Cellars Winery West Branch White

ROASTED PORK TENDERLOIN WITH
A THYME SHALLOT APPLE COMPOTE
presented by Jen Moyer Murphy
Corporate Chef
Clemens Food Group
Hatfield, PA
Yield: 4 servings

ROASTED PORK TENDERLOIN
1 PA pork tenderloin, about 1¼ lbs.
½ tsp. salt
½ tsp. fresh ground pepper

¼ tsp. dried thyme
½ tsp. freshly minced garlic

Preheat an oven to 400˚F. Combine the salt, pepper, thyme and
garlic in a small bowl. Coat all sides of the pork tenderloin with the
seasoning. Heat a large sauté pan or skillet and add the oil. Carefully
add the pork to the hot pan, pressing it down gently on the center
to ensure even browning. Cook for 3–4 minutes until brown on one
side, then turn to cook the other side 2–3 minutes, until completely
browned. Place on a cooking sheet and in the oven for 20–30 minutes
just until firm, or insert a thermometer until the temperature at the
thickest section reads 145˚F. Remove the pork from the oven and
64

PA PREFERRED™ CULINARY CONNECTION 2018

allow to rest for 5 minutes before slicing. Slice at an angle into ½"
thick pieces and serve withe the Thyme Shallot Apple Compote,
recipe follows.

THYME SHALLOT APPLE COMPOTE
1 Tbsp. olive oil
2 PA Gala apples, peeled and diced
2 ¾ cups shallots, about 4 large,
sliced 1/8" thick
1 garlic clove, cut into thin strips
¼ cup reduced sodium chicken
broth, or organic

2 Tbsp. balsamic vinegar
1 Tbsp. PA honey
1 Tbsp. butter
¼ tsp. Herbes de Provence
Salt and pepper, to taste

Heat a large sauté pan or skillet on medium-low heat. Add the oil to
the hot pan, then the shallots and apples. Stir and cook for 5 minutes;
do not brown. Add the garlic, reduce the heat, and cook for 10 minutes.
Pour in the broth, vinegar, honey, and butter. Simmer 20–30 minutes
or until the liquid thickens and almost completely evaporates. Stir in
the Herbes de Provence and season to taste with salt and pepper. Serve
over the Roasted Pork Tenderloin.
WINE PAIRING Blue Mountain Vineyards Riesling

MILITARY APPRECIATION DAY

65

F RI DAY, JAN UARY 1 2 , 201 8

PORK DAY

DI ETI T I AN T I P
A three-ounce serving of pork is an excellent source of protein, a good
source of potassium and naturally low in sodium. Look for cuts with
‘loin’ or ‘round’ in the name for the leanest selections, and cook all
fresh pork to a minimum internal temperature of 145°F.

BACON WRAPPED PORK TENDERLOIN
WITH BRANDIED APPLES
presented by Todd Lewis
Chef Instructor
PA Department of Corrections
Yield: 4 servings

BACON WRAPPED PORK TENDERLOIN
2 PA pork tenderloins
Salt and fresh ground black pepper,
to taste

2 tsp. fresh chopped rosemary	
¾ lb. thick sliced bacon	
2 Tbsp. vegetable oil

Preheat an oven to 400˚F. On a clean, sanitized work surface, trim the
pork tenderloins of excess fat and silver skin. Season each tenderloin
with salt, pepper and half of the rosemary. Wrap each with half of the
bacon and secure with toothpicks. Heat a sauté pan over medium-high
heat. Add the oil and sear the tenderloins on all sides until golden
brown. Transfer to an oven safe baking dish and finish in the oven
until the internal temperature holds 145˚F for 15 seconds in the
thickest part of the loin, about 7–10 minutes. Allow the tenderloins to
rest on a carving board for 10 minutes. Slice the tenderloin and serve
with the Brandied Apples, recipe to follow.

BRANDIED APPLES
Yield: 1½ cups
2 PA Honeycrisp apples
2 Tbsp. butter	
1/3 cup brown sugar
2 Tbsp. apple juice

¼ tsp. cornstarch	
Pinch nutmeg
¼ tsp. allspice
2 Tbsp. brandy

Peel, core and slice the apples. Place a sauté pan over medium heat
and melt the butter. Add the brown sugar and stir until melted and
combined. In a separate bowl, mix the apple juice and the cornstarch
with your fingers to make sure there are no lumps. Add the cornstarch
mixture and sliced apples to the pan. Cook until tender, about 8
minutes. Stir in the nutmeg and allspice. Remove the pan from the heat
and add the brandy. Stir and hold warm for service.
WINE PAIRING Moon Dancer Vineyard & Winery Moon River White

68

PA PREFERRED™ CULINARY CONNECTION 2018

PORK BELLY WITH ACORN SQUASH
PUREE AND A SPICED HONEYLEMON GLAZE
presented by Maureen Sutton-Fowler
Sous Chef
Devon Seafood Grill
Hershey, PA
Yield: 20 servings

PORK BELLY
1 pork belly, skin on
1 gallon water
2 cinnamon sticks
¼ cup juniper berries
1 Tbsp. cloves

4 bay leaves
5 garlic cloves
1 large white onion, chopped
Salt and pepper, to taste

Rub the pork belly with ample salt and pepper. Combine all the other
ingredients in a hotel pan. Lay the pork belly skin side up in the pan,
cover with foil, and braise in a 350˚F oven for about 2 hours. The pork
belly should be very tender. Transfer the belly to a clean hotel pan.
Place a second pan on top. Use a weight (such as heavy #10 cans) and
press overnight in the refrigerator. To finish, cut the belly into the
desired shape. I prefer to cut the belly in half and then into thin strips
for optimal crispness. Sear until crispy and hot in a sauté pan.

SQUASH PUREE
2 large acorn squash
1/8 tsp. cinnamon
1 quart heavy cream

1/8 cup chopped thyme
Salt and pepper, to taste

Cut the acorn squash in half and remove the seeds. Roast until soft in a
350˚F oven for about 45 minutes, until tender. Scoop out the contents
of the squash. Combine the cream and squash in a saucepan. Bring
to a boil and puree. Add the thyme and season to taste with salt and
pepper.

HONEY LEMON GLAZE
1 quart PA honey
½ cup black pepper, toasted
½ cup coriander, toasted

½ cup ground star anise, toasted
1 cinnamon stick
½ cup lemon juice

Combine all the ingredients in a bowl. Place on a double boiler for one
hour, covered. Remove from the heat, strain, and enjoy!
PORK DAY

69

PLATING
Place the squash puree on each plate, making a “swoosh” with a spoon.
Shingle 3 pieces of the belly, and finish with a drizzle of the honey
lemon glaze.
WINE PAIRING Benigna’s Creek Winery Traminette

BEST RIB AND BEER COMPETITION
PRESENTED BY THE PA PORK PRODUCERS

HICKORY SMOKED PA IPA RIBS WITH
BOURBON RASPBERRY CHIPOTLE
BBQ SAUCE
Paired with Harty Brewing Company’s Saison
presented by David T. Mills III
Chef Instructor
HACC, Central Pennsylvania’s Community College
Harrisburg, PA
Yield: 6–8 servings

RIB RUB
1 lb. dark brown sugar
2 oz. kosher salt
1 Tbsp. dried thyme
1 Tbsp. cracked pepper
1 Tbsp. granulated garlic	

1 Tbsp. granulated onion
1 tsp. cumin
3 St. Louis Style PA rib racks
2 lbs. hickory wood chunks

Mix the dry ingredients; rub all around the ribs. Cover and refrigerate
overnight. Soak the hickory wood chunks overnight.

SMOKING PROCEDURE
20 oz. Harty Brewing Company IPA
Hickory wood chunks, presoaked
Spray bottle

Put the hickory wood chunks in the smoker and set it to 180˚F for a
good penetrating smoke. Put the IPA in a spray bottle. Place the sugar
cured ribs in the smoker and spritz with the IPA. Repeat the spritz
once every 20 minutes for 2 1/2 hours. Remove the ribs from the smoker
and place on a rack in a pan. Pour a small amount of the IPA into the
bottom of the pan. Cover the pan with heavy duty plastic wrap and 2
70

PA PREFERRED™ CULINARY CONNECTION 2018

layers of aluminum foil. Place in the oven at 225˚F for 2 hours. Hold
hot for service.

BOURBON RASPBERRY CHIPOTLE BBQ SAUCE
1 cup tomato paste
4 oz. dark brown sugar
4 oz. apple cider vinegar
1 cup water
2 Tbsp. kosher salt
1 Tbsp. Worcestershire sauce
3 oz. brewed espresso
1 tsp. granulated onion

1 tsp. granulated garlic
1 Tbsp. Homemade Chipotle Dust,
recipe follows
1 cup Homemade Raspberry
Preserves, recipe follows
2 oz. butter
2–4 oz. bourbon

Put all the ingredients, except the bourbon and butter, in a saucepan
and cook until fully blended. Remove from the heat and add the
butter. Stir until melted and fully incorporated. Reduce at a low heat
if necessary. Add the bourbon until the sauce reaches your desired
consistency.

HOMEMADE CHIPOTLE DUST
12 fresh jalapeños
Hickory woodchips

Slice the jalapeños in half lengthwise. Smoke the jalapeños at 180˚F
for 1 hour. Dehydrate the smoked jalapeños in a dehydrator overnight
until all the moisture is removed. Cool to room temperature. Put the
dried peppers into a spice grinder or coffee grinder and pulverize into
a dust. Reserve in an airtight container for use.

HOMEMADE RASPBERRY PRESERVES
4 pints fresh red raspberries
1 cup granulated sugar
2 Tbsp. PA honey

1 tsp. kosher salt
1 orange, zested and juiced

Put the sugar and raspberries in a saucepan on medium heat. Once the
liquid starts to come out of the raspberries, add the honey, salt, zest
and 1 ounce of orange juice. Simmer until all of the raspberries are
cooked down. Taste and adjust the salt and sugar if needed.

FINISHING THE RIBS
Brush the BBQ sauce over the ribs and place them on a grill or in an
oven set to 350˚F for 15 minutes. Brush more sauce on the ribs every
3–5 minutes. Serve with Harty Brewing Company’s Saison.

PORK DAY

71

BEST RIB AND BEER COMPETITION
PRESENTED BY THE PA PORK PRODUCERS

RIBS WITH B1 SAUCE
Paired with ZeroDay Brewing Company’s Critical Condition
presented by Bill Collier
Executive Chef
Bricco
Harrisburg, PA
Yield: 4–6 servings

B1 SAUCE
½ Tbsp. olive oil
1 ½ onions, large diced and smoked
5 garlic cloves, minced
¼ cup PA red wine
1 ½ Tbsp. thyme, picked
2/3 bottle Worcestershire sauce

8 oz. demi glace
6 cups ketchup
1 cup brown sugar
¼ cup molasses
1 cup PA apple cider
2/3 Tbsp. fresh ground black pepper

In a large saucepan, heat the oil and sweat the garlic and onions.
Deglaze the pan with red wine. Add the remaining ingredients and
simmer for 1 hour. Puree in a blender and cool.

RIB RUB
2 racks PA pork ribs
3 oz. PA apple cider
2 Tbsp. kosher salt
2 Tbsp. brown sugar
1 Tbsp. smoked paprika

1 Tbsp. onion powder
1 Tbsp. ground grains of paradise
1 Tbsp. garlic powder
1 tsp. cayenne pepper

Rub the ribs with the apple cider until they are wet all over. Combine
all the dry spices together in a bowl and season the ribs heavily with
the rub. Double wrap in plastic wrap (restaurant grade). Leave the ribs
overnight in a refrigerator.
Preheat a convection oven to 300˚F. Place the ribs on a baking sheet
and cook in the oven for 2 hours. Remove from the oven and place
directly into the refrigerator to cool. Once cooled completely through,
cut the plastic wrap off gently. Place the ribs on a preheated grill and
lather with the sauce.

72

PA PREFERRED™ CULINARY CONNECTION 2018

PORK SCALLOPINI WITH SPINACH,
CAPERS, LEMON, AND IPA PICKLED
MUSTARD SEEDS
presented by Bill Collier
Executive Chef
Bricco
Harrisburg, PA
Yield: 2 servings
4 boneless PA pork chops, pounded
thin
¼ cup all-purpose flour
Kosher salt and freshly ground black
pepper, to taste
4 Tbsp. butter, divided
1 Tbsp. vegetable oil, divided
½ cup PA white wine

¼ cup capers
1 cup chicken stock
2 lemons, juiced
1 lemon, cut in wedges
2 oz. baby spinach
2 Tbsp. chopped Italian flat-leaf
parsley

Mix the flour, salt and pepper in a large shallow bowl or plate. Add
the pork chops to the flour, one at a time, and coat each pork chop.
Gently tap off the excess flour. Heat a large skillet on medium high.
Melt 1 tablespoon of butter with ½ tablespoon of the oil. Place 2 of
the pork chops in the skillet and cook for 2–4 minutes on each side, or
until golden brown. Remove from the pan and set aside. Add 1 more
tablespoon of butter and the remaining oil. Cook the remaining 2 pork
chops and place with the other two cooked pork chops.
Wipe out any burned or really crispy bits out of the pan. Melt 1
tablespoon of butter in the pan over medium high heat. Add the wine
and capers and cook until reduced by half. Add the chicken stock,
lemon juice, and a few lemon wedges and bring to a boil. Add the
remaining tablespoon of butter and stir, cooking for 2–3 minutes or
until the sauce thickens slightly. Add the pork back to the pan and
warm in the sauce. Add the spinach and wilt. Garnish with chopped
parsley and IPA Pickled Mustard Seeds, recipe to follow.

IPA PICKLED MUSTARD SEEDS
1 cup cider vinegar
1 cup PA IPA beer
1 cup brown sugar

1 Tbsp. dry mustard powder
½ cup whole yellow mustard seeds

In a saucepan, bring everything but the mustard seeds to a boil. Add
the mustard seeds and simmer for 5 minutes until the seeds bloom, or

PORK DAY

73

roughly double in size. Remove from the heat and let cool. Store the
seeds in the liquid, refrigerated for up to two weeks.
WINE PAIRING Nissley Vineyards Vidal Blanc

INDIAN RIVER TORTILLA CRUSTED
PORK SALAD
presented by Thomas J. Long, CEC, AAC
Director of Campus Dining
The Chef’s Apprentice, HACC
Harrisburg, PA
Yield: 4 servings

INDIAN RIVER TORTILLA CRUSTED PORK
1 PA pork tenderloin,
about 14–16 oz.
1 oz. red, white and blue tortilla
chips (about 9–10 chips), crushed

1 ½ tsp. salt free lemon pepper
seasoning
2 Tbsp. mayonnaise

Preheat an oven to 350˚F. Combine the crushed chips and lemon
pepper in a sandwich bag and shake to mix. Remove the pork
tenderloin from the package and blot dry with a paper towel. Trim any
excess fat off of the meat. Using a pastry brush, paint the mayonnaise
onto the pork to evenly coat. Place the crumb mixture on a small sheet
tray and arrange in a long line. Place the pork on the crumb mixture
and roll to coat completely. Place on a roasting rack with a drip
pan underneath in the oven for 40–45 minutes, or until the internal
temperature is 145–150˚F. Remove and let rest for 10 minutes before
carving.

SALAD BLEND
4 oz. watercress or arugula
1 medium ruby red grapefruit,
peeled, sectioned, seeded, and
halved
1 cup edamame beans, thawed if
frozen

¼ cup organic unsalted sunflower
seeds
1/3 cup dried sweetened cranberries
1 ½ oz. thinly sliced leeks
2 oz. julienne red radishes

Combine the salad ingredients in a 4 quart bowl and refrigerate until
service time.

74

PA PREFERRED™ CULINARY CONNECTION 2018

DRESSING
¼ cup canola or safflower oil
2 Tbsp. red wine vinegar
1 Tbsp. PA maple syrup

¼ tsp. kosher salt
¼ tsp. fresh ground black pepper

In a 2 cup mixing bowl, combine the ingredients for the dressing and
hold for service.

PLATING
Toss the salad and dressing together and evenly plate four portions in
the center of each 9" plate. Slice the pork into 16 even slices and fan 4
slices on each salad. Serve immediately.
WINE PAIRING Flickerwood Wine Cellars Cayuga Kiss

ITALIAN PORCHETTA, MARINATED
KING TRUMPET MUSHROOMS,
SMASHED POTATO CRISPS WITH
AN ORANGE AND ROSEMARY
VINAIGRETTE
presented by David T. Mills III
Chef Instructor
HACC, Central Pennsylvania’s Community College
Harrisburg, PA
Yield: 30 servings

CURED PORK BELLY
1 PA pork belly, skin-on
4 oz. kosher salt

12 oz. dark brown sugar
1 Tbsp. cracked pepper

Mix the dry ingredients together and rub all around the pork belly.
Refrigerate covered overnight.

PORCHETTA
1 cured pork belly
4 oz. fresh rosemary
1 garlic bulb
1 fennel bulb
2 oranges

1 oz. kosher salt
1 tsp. cracked pepper
1 tsp. ground clove
1 pork loin, cleaned

Mince the garlic and rosemary. Fine julienne the fennel. Zest and
juice the oranges. Add the garlic, rosemary, fennel, orange zest, orange
PORK DAY

75

juice, cloves, salt, and pepper to a bowl and toss together. Place the
pork belly, skin side down, on a work surface. Spread the mixture
evenly over the pork belly. Place the pork loin in the center of the belly
lengthwise. Roll the belly around the loin and truss them together.
Place on a rack in a roasting pan and cook at 350˚F uncovered. Cook
until the skin is brown and crisp and the internal temperature reaches
165˚F, about 1 ½–2 hours. Let it rest at room temperature for at least
15 minutes before slicing.

KING TRUMPET MUSHROOMS
4 dozen PA king trumpet
mushrooms
1 cup extra-virgin olive oil
2 oz. champagne vinegar
2 oz. brown sugar

1 oz. kosher salt
1 lemon, zested and juiced
1 oz. red pepper flakes
1 Tbsp. dry mustard powder

Slice the mushrooms in half from bottom to top. Mix all the
ingredients together and marinate the mushrooms in the refrigerator
for at least one hour. Remove the mushrooms from the marinade and
cook in a hot sauté pan for about 90 seconds on each side. Reserve hot
for plating.

POTATO CRISPS
3 lb. new gold potatoes
2 garlic cloves, minced
1 oz. kosher salt
1 tsp. fresh cracked black pepper

1 oz. olive oil
1 oz. fresh minced parsley
8 oz. butter

Put the potatoes, garlic, salt, pepper, and oil in a baking pan and toss
together. Bake at 350˚F until fork tender, about 25 minutes. Heat a
small amount of butter in a sauté pan and add the parsley. Put 2–3
potatoes per serving in the pan and smash them flat with the back of a
metal spatula. Cook until browned and crisp on each side. Reserve hot
for plating.

ORANGE ROSEMARY VINAIGRETTE
1 cup extra-virgin olive oil
2 garlic cloves, minced
1 oz. kosher salt
1 tsp. fresh cracked black pepper
1 tsp. white truffle oil

2 oz. white balsamic vinegar
4 oranges, zested and juiced
1 oz. fresh rosemary, minced
1 Tbsp. crushed red pepper flakes

Put all of the ingredients in a bowl and whisk together. Reserve at
room temperature for plating.

76

PA PREFERRED™ CULINARY CONNECTION 2018

PLATING
Place 2–3 potato crisps on the plate, stacked and just off center. Place
2 thin slices of Porchetta shingled and leaning over the potato crisps.
Drizzle with a small amount of the vinaigrette. Place 2 mushroom
halves on the plate and garnish with crushed rosemary needles.
WINE PAIRING Fero Vineyards Dry Riesling

PORK DAY

77

r an
Join us fo

ly
Undeniab off
kea
h
S
y
r
i
a
D
nection

on
C
y
r
a
n
i
l
u
at the C

shake
k
l
i
m
a
h
s!
atc
Come w ample the entrie
s
contest &
ary 13

anu
J
,
y
a
d
r
u
Sat
11:00am
/AmericanDairy
/AmericanDairyNE

S ATU R DAY, JAN UARY 1 3, 201 8

DAIRY DAY

DI ETI T I AN T I P
Dairy products provide important nutrients including calcium,
potassium, vitamin D and protein. Intake of dairy products is linked to
improved bone health and associated with lower blood pressure and
a reduced risk of cardiovascular disease and type 2 diabetes.

LEMON CHIBOUST TART
presented by Cassandra Callahan
Owner and Executive Pastry Chef
Raising the Bar
Harrisburg, PA
Yield: 6–8 servings

TART DOUGH
1 lb. butter	
4 1/2 oz. sugar		

4 eggs		
1 1/2 lb. all-purpose flour	

Cream the butter and sugar together until light and fluffy. Scrape the
bowl occasionally. Add the eggs and combine. Add the flour until just
incorporated. Allow to chill for at least 30 minutes before using. Roll
out to an even ¼" thickness and form into a tart pan. Dock the dough
with a fork and prebake in a 350˚F oven for 7–10 minutes, until golden
brown.

LEMON CURD
16 egg yolks	
2 ½ cups sugar

1 cup fresh lemon juice		
6 oz. butter

Cook the first three ingredients over a double boiler. Whisk
occasionally until thick, like a pudding. Remove from the heat and add
the butter. Whisk until smooth and strain.

CHIBOUST
8 oz. lemon curd		
2 gelatin sheets or 1 oz. powdered
gelatin
2 oz. water			

5 oz. sugar, and as needed for
dusting
5 egg whites	

Soften the gelatin and whisk into the warm curd. Set aside to cool.
Make an Italian meringue: place the water and sugar in a saucepan
and boil until it reaches 240˚F. When the mixture is at 220˚F, start
whipping the egg whites in a clean, dry bowl. Once the syrup reaches
240˚F, slowly drizzle it into the egg whites while continuing to whip.
Whip the mixture until cooled down and medium peaks form. Gently
fold the meringue into the lemon curd. Transfer the Chiboust into the
prepared tart shell. Dust the top with sugar and burn with a blowtorch
until lightly caramelized.
WINE PAIRING Christian W. Klay Raspberry Frost

80

PA PREFERRED™ CULINARY CONNECTION 2018

CHEDDAR MAC AND CHEESE WITH
BBQ PORK TENDERLOIN
presented by Damien Garloff
Chef De Cuisine
Epic Buffet
Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course
Grantville, PA
Yield: 6–8 servings

CHEDDAR MAC AND CHEESE
16 oz. elbow macaroni
2 Tbsp. butter
2 Tbsp. all-purpose flour
2 cups milk

10 oz. extra sharp cheddar cheese,
shredded
¼ tsp. salt
¼ tsp. white pepper

Crumb Topping
6 oz. panko crumbs
6 oz. shredded Parmesan

1 oz. chopped parsley
3  ½ oz. melted butter

Cook the pasta until al dente. Mix all the ingredients together for the
crumb topping and set aside. While the pasta is cooking, melt down
the butter and slowly whisk in the flour. Add the milk while stirring,
and simmer for 5 minutes. Turn off the heat and slowly whisk in the
cheddar cheese. After the cheese is melted and incorporated, season
with salt and pepper, and add to the cooked pasta. Pour into a baking
dish, top with the crumb mixture and bake in a 400˚F oven for 15
minutes, or until the crumbs are golden brown. Plate and serve with
the sliced BBQ Pork Tenderloin, recipe to follow.

BBQ PORK TENDERLOIN
1 pork tenderloin
2 Tbsp. brown sugar
2 Tbsp. paprika
1 ½ tsp. black pepper

1 ½ tsp. salt
¼ tsp. chili powder
½ tsp. garlic powder

Clean off any excess fat from the pork tenderloin. Mix all the dry
ingredients together and rub the pork on all sides. Preheat a pan and
sear the pork on all sides until browned. Finish in a 350˚F oven for 30
minutes. Allow the pork to rest for 5–10 minutes, then slice thin. Serve
with the BBQ Sauce, recipe to follow.

DAIRY DAY

81

BBQ SAUCE
1 cup ketchup
¼ cup apple cider vinegar
½ cup water
½ Tbsp. lemon juice
1 Tbsp. Worcestershire sauce
3 Tbsp. brown sugar
2 Tbsp. honey

¼ tsp. cayenne pepper
1 tsp. onion powder
1 tsp. garlic powder
2 tsp. ground mustard powder
1 tsp. ground black pepper
½ tsp. salt

Mix all the ingredients together in a saucepan. Bring to a boil, then
reduce to a simmer for 30 minutes.
WINE PAIRING Hungry Run Wine & Spirits Riesling

FRESH COW’S MILK MOZZARELLA
presented by Chad Brumbaugh
Chef Instructor
HACC, Central Pennsylvania’s Community College
Harrisburg, PA
Yield: 1 lb.
¼ vegetable rennet tablet
2 fl. oz. distilled or bottled water
1 gallon whole milk, preferably raw

2 tsp. powdered citric acid
¼ cup non-iodized fine salt

Crush the rennet tablet and dissolve it in the water. Begin warming the
milk over moderate heat. Stir in the citric acid. When the milk reaches
88˚F, stir in the rennet solution. Continue stirring over moderate heat
until the milk reaches 105˚F. At that temperature, curds will form.
Immediately remove the pan from the heat and scoop out the curds
with a spider or perforated lifter. Place the curds in a bowl. Return the
pot to the heat and stir in the salt. Bring the whey to 185˚F and hold it
at that temperature.
Put on a pair of clean, heatproof rubber gloves and form the hot curds
into a ball of cheese. Place the cheese in the spider and lower it in
the whey for about 10 seconds. Return the curd ball to the bowl and
knead it like bread dough for about 30 seconds. Return the curd ball
to the whey and heat it for 10 seconds more. Return the cheese to the
bowl, and knead again. Pull on the cheese and try to stretch it like
taffy. If the cheese will stretch and is pliable and shiny, form it into
large or medium size balls, a twisted braid, bite-size balls (Bocconcini),
or other desired shape. If it does not stretch, repeat heating in whey
and kneading until the correct consistency is achieved. Place the
cheese in the bowl, cover it with a clean, wet towel, and cool it to
82

PA PREFERRED™ CULINARY CONNECTION 2018

room temperature. Use immediately or place the cheese in a freshly
sanitized covered container submerged in cool water.
The fresh mozzarella can be served plain or used in various dishes.
Refrigerate up to 1 week.
WINE PAIRING Happy Valley Vineyard & Winery Happy Valley Red

ROASTED SWEET POTATO AND
GOAT CHEESE BLINTZ
presented by Stephanie Gelberd
Executive Chef
SAVOR
PA Farm Show Complex & Expo Center
Harrisburg, PA
Yield: 8–10 servings
1 cup all-purpose flour
1 tsp. salt
1 Tbsp. sugar
3 eggs
1 cup milk
2 Tbsp. plus 1 Tbsp. extra-virgin
olive oil
1 ½ lb. sweet potatoes, peeled and
medium diced
1 Tbsp. blended oil
Salt and pepper, as needed

¼ cup sweet onion, thin julienne
1 garlic clove, minced
½ lb. Misty Creek Kid Chego, grated
1 bunch cilantro, chopped, divided
2 limes, juiced, divided
½ cup walnuts, plus more for
garnishing
1 cup Greek yogurt
¼ tsp. chipotle pepper in adobo
¼ lb. butter
1 lb. Misty Creek Chevre

To make the batter, combine the flour, sugar and salt. Add the eggs,
milk and 2 tablespoons of extra-virgin olive oil. Whisk until no lumps
remain. Rest the batter in the refrigerator for at least 1 hour to let the
gluten relax.
Toss the diced sweet potato in the blended oil, salt, and pepper. Roast
in an oven at 400˚F for 20 minutes. Heat the remaining tablespoon of
olive oil in a large sauté pan over medium heat. Add the onions and a
pinch of salt. Sauté just until soft, about 3–5 minutes. Add the garlic
and sauté for one minute. Add the roasted sweet potatoes, Kid Chego
cheese, half the cilantro, and the juice of 1 lime. Stir until the cheese
is melted. Transfer to a large bowl and mix together, smashing the
potatoes. Leave some pieces; do not make it smooth. Add the walnuts
and stir to combine.
To make the cilantro cream sauce, combine the yogurt, chipotle
pepper, the remaining half of the cilantro, juice from 1 lime, and salt in
DAIRY DAY

83

a food processor until smooth. Add a little olive oil to the sauce if you
want a thinner consistency. Set aside.
To make the blintzes, butter a 9" nonstick pan with a thin coat of
butter over medium high heat. Pour ¼ cup of batter into the pan to
coat the bottom. Swirl the pan to coat evenly. After about a minute,
the ends will begin to curl up. Do not flip. Slide the blintzes onto
parchment paper to allow them to cool. Spread a spoonful of goat
cheese towards the bottom of each blintz, then layer with a heaping
tablespoon of the sweet potato filling. Fold the bottom of the blintz up
to cover the filling and then fold the sides in and roll over.
Add a tablespoon of butter back to the medium nonstick pan over
medium high heat. Cook the blintzes on each side until golden brown,
about 1–2 minutes per side. Drizzle the cilantro cream sauce over the
blintzes and sprinkle with more walnuts and cilantro for garnish.
WINE PAIRING Paradocx Vineyards Vidal Blanc

84

PA PREFERRED™ CULINARY CONNECTION 2018

CULINARY CONNECTION

PARTICIPATING CULINARY ARTS
PROGRAMS AND FACULTY
DAUPHIN COUNTY TECHNICAL SCHOOL
The Culinary Arts program at Dauphin County Technical
School prepares students to enter the world of work in quality
food service operations or for advanced study in associate’s
degree or bachelor’s degree culinary programs. This competency based, dual
instructor program is taught in a state-of-the-art commercial foodservice
facility including a restaurant kitchen and dining room, bakeshop, and
demonstration theater. Culinary Arts combines professional cooking and
baking, restaurant service, culinary math, and foodservice management
to start students on the path to becoming well-rounded foodservice
professionals with 21st century skills.

CLAIRE DACKO

Instructor, Culinary Arts
Chef Claire Dacko is a Culinary Arts instructor at Dauphin County
Technical School in Harrisburg, PA. Chef Dacko has a diverse background in
the field of culinary hospitality and foodservice management. She received
her bachelor’s degree in Culinary Arts and Service Management from Paul
Smith’s College. She has held a variety of culinary positions in New York and
Philadelphia over the past fifteen years. Her education and work experience
in restaurants, hotels and institutions led her to the teaching profession.
Chef Dacko’s passion for the foodservice industry has never diminished, and
has now been coupled with her love of working with the next generation
of young culinarians. Chef Dacko is currently pursuing a M. ED from The
Pennsylvania State University and she looks forward to growing in her role
as a culinary educator. When she is not immersed in her work in the kitchen
and classroom, she enjoys spending time with her two young children,
Harrison and Eleanor, and her husband, Chef Robert Dacko.

HACC, CENTRAL PENNSYLVANIA’S
COMMUNITY COLLEGE
The Benjamin Olewine III Center for the Study of Culinary
Arts and Baking and Pastry Arts at HACC, Central
Pennsylvania’s Community College, provides distinctive educational options
to become professionals, including associate degree, certificate, and diploma
programs. They also have supervised on-the-job experiences through Bricco,

a commercial restaurant in downtown Harrisburg, The Hilton Harrisburg,
and The Chef’s Apprentice, HACC’s new campus restaurant.

CHAD BRUMBAUGH

Chef Instructor

Chef Chad Brumbaugh is a graduate of the Culinary Institute of America
in 1998. He has held various Sous Chef and Executive Chef positions
throughout Central Pennsylvania. His passion for teaching evolved through
working with interns in professional kitchens. Chef Chad joined the team
at HACC in 2015 as a chef instructor. He is currently one of the culinary and
hospitality students’ most impactful mentors and a club advisor. His role
involves overseeing the hands-on industry experience classes held at Bricco,
Hilton Harrisburg, and the Chef’s Apprentice at HACC. He also teaches
various other culinary and beverage classes. The biggest reward for Chef
Chad in his profession, is being given the opportunity to help students grow
and set them up for success in the culinary field.

DAVID T. MILLS III

Chef Instructor

Chef David T. Mills III started his career in the kitchen like most chefs, as
a dishwasher in high school. He worked in Country Clubs and restaurants.
He was an executive Chef by the age of 20 and a general manager by the
age of 22. He then worked for various contract management companies
traveling the eastern part of the United States and learning the regional
cuisines of American cooking while gaining the management skills
necessary to build strong diverse teams. This also gave him the opportunity
to learn many aspects of foodservice including Campus Dining, Business
Dining, Corrections, Acute Care and Long Term Care Healthcare, Retail,
Institutional, and Catering. Chef Mills has won multiple awards with his
employers and was part of the team that won the “President’s Award” at
HACC.
At 34 years old, Chef Mills was given the opportunity to return to school to
obtain a degree. He chose HACC. Going through the program at HACC he
saw opportunity to make a real difference. Upon graduation in May 2014,
he accepted a position at HACC as a Culinary Instructor. This position has
allowed him to truly be a mentor to so many culinarians. He is currently the
Chair of the Governing board of The L.E.A.F. Project and is the President of
the Central PA Chapter of The American Culinary Federation.

AUTUMN PATTI

Program Director, Culinary Arts, Baking and Pastry Arts Program
Chef Autumn Patti first found her passion for food while working at Yoko
Sushi in southern California as a young teenager. She continued to work
in the industry and came to HACC in 1998, working towards a medical
profession. She worked in several restaurant kitchens and dining rooms to
support herself while earning her Liberal Arts of Life Science AA degree
in 2000. She decided to pursue her passion and enrolled in the Culinary

Arts program at HACC. In 2002, she earned her Culinary Arts AA degree,
Restaurant Foodservice Management AA degree, and a Catering diploma.
In 2001, she opened a small catering business with her classmate, Diane
Brown. Creative Quisine thrived for 15 years keeping her skills and industry
experiences fresh.
She entered into a newly established position in January 2003 as a lab
teaching assistant at HACC part-time while remaining in local kitchens to
gain experience. Chef Patti began teaching the hands on culinary classes in
2004 and found her true passion for education. In 2006, she helped establish
and accepted a new position of the Kitchen Manager, Purchasing Agent, and
Special Events Coordinator for the Hospitality programs while continuing to
teach various classes as an Adjunct Instructor.
In 2014, she became the Program Director and has led the Culinary team
thru kitchen relocations, program restructuring, a new restaurant endeavor,
and most importantly, providing exceptional education to the future of our
Hospitality Industry. In 2016, she was awarded with HACC’s President
Award, HACC Club Advisor of the Year award, and the Chef Educator of the
Year award by the local American Culinary Federation chapter.

THE LEAF PROJECT
The LEAF Project connects youth to the food they
eat, the land on which it grows, and to each other
through engaging in farm work, culinary skill development, workshops, and
community outreach. Through the meaningful work of building a healthy,
local food system, youth are motivated to make personal and social change
while increasing knowledge about and access to locally raised food in our
community.

LEBANON COUNTY
CAREER & TECHNOLOGY CENTER
The Lebanon County Career & Technology Center Culinary &
Pastry Arts programs are the First Dual Certified Secondary
Program in the country by the American Culinary Federation. The program
is a full day senior only program. The program runs from the end of August
to the beginning of June. The programs run a retail restaurant and pastry
shop that are open to the public Wednesday through Friday during the school
year. The programs have received numerous awards from Skills USA and are
ranked as one of the best high school hospitality programs in the country. In
2011, Lebanon County Career & Technology Center was chosen as a winner
for the 9th Annual PRA Excellence in Food Safety Award.

ROBERT CORLE

Instructor, Culinary Arts
Chef Robert Corle holds certifications from the American Culinary
Federation as a Certified Executive Chef and Certified Culinary Educator.

He attained his training from the Hotel Hershey Apprenticeship Program
and Penn State University. He brings over thirty years of experience to the
program, having worked for the Hotel Hershey, Country Club of Hershey,
Mission Point Hotel, La Champaign Resort and Hershey Foods Corporation.
Chef Corle also holds a Vocational II Certificate from Penn State Work
Force Education and is certified in Vocational Quantity Foods and
Vocational Commercial Baking. He also has a bachelor’s degree from the Art
Institute in Culinary management.
Chef Corle’s honors include: The Lebanon Valley Chamber of Commerce’s
Mentor Award, Penn State WOW Award, and an Exemplary Grant for an
Outstanding Program in Culinary and Pastry Arts.

BRIAN PEFFLEY

Instructor, Culinary & Pastry Arts
Chef Peffley is our Pastry Arts Instructor. He holds certifications from
the American Culinary Federation as a Certified Executive Pastry Chef
and Certified Culinary Educator. He attained his training from the Hotel
Hershey Apprenticeship Program and Penn State University. He brings over
20 years of experience to the program, having worked for the Boca Raton
Hotel and Club, Boca Raton, Florida; Arizona Biltmore, Phoenix, Arizona;
Dingeldein Bakery, New Cumberland, Pennsylvania and having served as the
Executive Pastry Chef for the Hotel Hershey.
Chef Peffley received his Bachelor of Science Degree in Culinary
Management from the International Culinary School at the Art Institute.
Chef Peffley is also certified by Penn State University with a Vocational
II Certificate and has his Pennsylvania State Professional Certificates in
both Pastry and Culinary Arts. He is certified by the National Restaurant
Association in Sanitation.
Chef Peffley serves on the Board of Directors for the Central Chapter of the
Pennsylvania Restaurant Association, Education Committee and is on the
Pastry Advisory Board for Pennsylvania College of Technology, Harrisburg
Area Community College, and the Milton Hershey School Culinary Program.
He is an active member of the Harrisburg Chapter of the American Culinary
Federation and served as President and Chairman of the Board, as well as the
Retail Baker’s Association and the National Society for Collegiate Scholars.
Chef Peffley’s honors include: Who’s Who Among American Teachers, The
Lebanon Valley Chamber of Commerce (Excellence in Education) Award, the
2006 Wal-Mart Teacher-of-the-Year award, induction into the 2008 Lebanon
County Educational Honor Society, and the Penn State University award for
an Exemplary Program. His program is also the first secondary Pastry Arts
program in the country to receive ACF certification.
Chef Peffley was selected to a position on the board for the American
Culinary Federation Education Foundation for Secondary Programs,
specializing in Baking and Pastry Art programs. Chef Peffley was recently
inducted into the American Culinary Federation’s American Academy of
Chefs.

PENNSYLVANIA COLLEGE OF
TECHNOLOGY
Pennsylvania College of Technology is a national leader
in applied technology education and an affiliate of The
Pennsylvania State University. Degrees offered represent more than
100 career fields ranging from manufacturing, design, transportation,
construction, and natural resources to hospitality, health, business, and
communication. Students in Pennsylvania College of Technology’s Culinary
Arts Technology major are training for food preparation and supervisory
positions in hotels, resorts, and restaurants. The College’s main campus is
located in Williamsport, PA. Chef Paul Mach, a Professor at Penn College’s
School of Hospitality, is a Chef, Author and Host of the TV show You’re
the Chef. The team of Penn College culinary students is led by Chef Mike
J. Ditchfield, Instructor, Hospitality Management/Culinary Arts, and Chef
Todd Keeley, Instructor, Hospitality Management/Culinary Arts.

MIKE DITCHFIELD

Instructor, Hospitality Management/Culinary Arts
Chef Michael J. Ditchfield has earned his MS in Education from Wilkes
University and a BS from the Pennsylvania College of Technology in
Culinary Arts Technology. Chef Ditchfield was awarded the Excellence in
Teaching, Distinguished Teaching Award in May 2011. He presently teaches
Regional American Cuisine, Catering, Meat Fabrication, and Advanced
Dining Room Management. He also is an internship coordinator. Chef Mike
works extensively with organic and sustainable farmers, considering them
to be primary sources of the fine ingredients needed to prepare excellent
cuisine. His classes often involve trips to an organic farm, trout nursery, a
winery, food demonstrations at local grower’s markets, harvest dinners, and
sourcing out quality food and producers.

TODD KEELEY

Instructor, Hospitality Management/Culinary Arts
Chef Todd has been around the food industry since the age of 3, when his
parents began a cake decorating business out of their home. His 23 years
of full-time service to the industry included a director of bakery operations
position and an opportunity to own and operate bakery, restaurant, café and
decorated-cake businesses. Chef Todd holds an associate degree in baking
and pastry arts, a bachelor’s degree in applied management, and is a baking
and pastry arts instructor at Pennsylvania College of Technology.

NOTES

NOTES

PA Preferred™ is your resource for finding
locally grown and processed agricultural
products from the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania. The program is housed in
the Bureau of Market Development at the
Pennsylvania Department of Agriculture.
Established in 2011, PA Preferred has more than 2,000 members.
Citizens of Pennsylvania can count on PA Preferred to be a hub
of information about the variety of products being produced and
processed right here in Pennsylvania. When you buy Pennsylvania
products, you strengthen the economy, support your local community,
and provide opportunities for you and your family to experience some
of the finest products in the world!
This year’s PA Preferred™ Culinary Connection at the 102nd
Pennsylvania Farm Show features chefs cooking with Pennsylvania
ingredients. It’s a showcase of the Commonwealth’s finest ingredients
prepared by some of the most talented people in the industry. We
hope you enjoy this truly farm-to-table experience.
Save your copy of the 2018 Culinary Connection Recipe Book and pull
it out when you want to recreate your favorite recipes from the 2018
Culinary Connection stage. And while shopping for those ingredients,
remember to choose PA Preferred and support Pennsylvania farms.
Visit our website for a directory and follow us on social media!

Wine pairings courtesy of
the Pennsylvania Winery Association

SPONSORED

Experience the Culinary Connection
at the Pennsylvania Farm Show
In The Pennsylvania Farm Show Complex
& Expo Center Main Exhibit Hall

BY

JANUARY 6-13, 2018

PA P R E F E R R E D .C O M

